URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/campus-wellness-resources/about-student-health-and-well-being
TITLE: About Student Health and Well-being

About Student Health and Well-being
Our Vision
Advancing holistic student well-being.
Our Mission
Campus Wellness aspires to collaborate at an individual, community and systems level to enhance student well-being. We provide both proactive and responsive care and support, tailored to the diverse needs of students.
Our Commitment
Waterloo’s commitment to students’ overall well-being is affirmed in three key principles that shape the robust network of resources, programs, initiatives, and services dedicated to their mental health and well-being, all of which adhere to the University’s Privacy and Consent Policy . This commitment is further supported in the University’s adoption of the Okanagan Charter .
Our Principles
We prioritize the holistic well-being of students, supporting their mental, physical, spiritual, and emotional health with a commitment to meet their diverse needs.
All resources and services for students are developed using a student-centred design approach. This ensures that counselling and wellness programs meet their diverse needs, which includes the expansion of services, access to advisors in mental health case management, and flexible hours that best accommodate students. Waterloo is supporting multiple dimensions of wellness, beyond mental health, creating a framework for complete well-being that helps them flourish academically and in other aspects of life.
We offer culturally relevant and identity-based support for equity-deserving students, ensuring they feel seen, understood, and valued.
Counselling Services offers a range of tailored support resources to help students navigate life’s challenges. From individual counselling sessions to workshops and group support, students can access a variety of options to find the approach that best fits their situation. This includes connecting with specialized counsellors who bring valuable lived experiences or share similar identities, ensuring that support is both personalized and relatable. These services provide equitable access and culturally safe supports to meet the unique needs of students.
We design programs and services that are grounded in effective, sustainable interventions to create long-term, positive impact for students.
Students are a key contributor in the development of programs that support them, with their feedback and insights shaping our approach to health and well-being. This ongoing dialogue with students ensures that the University understands and meets their growing needs. Decision-making processes use qualitative and quantitative data to refine and promote services, identify unmet needs, and evaluate student engagement. These upstream and downstream measures reinforce Waterloo’s holistic approach to student mental health and well-being.
Reporting
We are actively capturing and documenting qualitative and quantitative measures related to the success of our programs and services.
Read our latest report to the Board of Governors below.
To request a written copy of Waterloo’s Student Mental and Well-being Principles, please email the Secretariat .
