URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/work-abroad/before-you-go/emergency-planning
TITLE: Planning for emergencies

Planning for emergencies
While taking proper precautions can help avert crises, no level of preparation can prevent all problems or completely guarantee your safety. The following best practices will help you prepare and make the most of your work term abroad:
Plan for an emergency
Get pre-departure information in the Co-op work term readiness training course in LEARN
Review the Government of Canada website for active travel advisories
Download the Anvil Group app and travel brief to review available coverage
Register with Canadians Abroad (Canadian citizens) or equivalent if not a Canadian citizen
Create a list of local emergency service numbers
Update your emergency contact and location information form in WaterlooWorks.
While abroad
It’s important to keep track of the following so you are ready to act in the event something happens:
Regularly monitor the Government of Canada’s travel advisories website for any changes to travel advice.
Download and monitor the Anvil app for ongoing developments in your location.
Review your WaterlooWorks messages and your Waterloo email regularly. We will provide important updates through those channels.
What to do in an emergency
In the event of an emergency, there are several resources available. Find out who to contact in an emergency including contact information for the Waterloo Special Constable Service and other emergency services. Remember to reach out to your co-op advisor to let them know about your situation.
Natural disasters or major incidents
In case of a natural disaster or major incident in your location:
Get to a safe place and stay there.
Follow the news and local police service websites for alerts and developments.
Keep your communication devices charged.
Communicate with your family to let them know where and how you are.
Let your employer know where and how you are and follow their direction.
Contact your co-op advisor and let them know who you are with, if you are safe and what support (if any) you may need so we can assist.
Please remember that CEE or Safety Abroad will reach out to you using your contact information in WaterlooWorks. If we cannot reach you directly, we will attempt to reach the emergency contact listed on your Risk Management Form. Ensure your contact information in WaterlooWorks is up to date.
Please monitor your email for these messages and respond as soon as you are safely able to do so to let us know you are safe.
