URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/work-abroad
TITLE: Work abroad

Work abroad
Explore the world through co-op
Experience a work term in your field of study outside of Canada. Your journey starts here. Learn more about co-op work terms abroad.
Student stories
Waterloo students work abroad in places all over the world. They return with valuable work and life experiences—from learning a new language or skill to exploring their intercultural effectiveness. Read our blogs, written by students, about their experiences abroad.
Hear from students
Where in the world!? co-op photo contest
Who doesn’t love a good photo? We sure do! Take pictures of your experience working and living abroad. We want to see and share it with other students to inspire them. Learn about eligibility and how to submit a photo.
Eligibility and how to submit
Make an impact through sustainability
Working abroad is a great opportunity to make a difference for our shared planet. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) highlight that sustainability is a critical pathway to build prosperity, equity and a healthy planet.
Make an impact
Contact our team
Our team is here to support you on your work abroad journey:
General inquiries and information about international visas/permits to go abroad: ceeinties@uwaterloo.ca
General inquiries and information about international visas/permits to go abroad: ceeinties@uwaterloo.ca
General inquiries and USA J-1 visa information: ceeusaies@uwaterloo.ca
General inquiries and USA J-1 visa information: ceeusaies@uwaterloo.ca
Support while abroad: If you are working outside of Canada or the United States, you’ll temporarily be assigned a co-op advisor with international employment specialization for the duration of your work term, who can provide specialized support. Contact your international co-op advisor .
Support while abroad: If you are working outside of Canada or the United States, you’ll temporarily be assigned a co-op advisor with international employment specialization for the duration of your work term, who can provide specialized support. Contact your international co-op advisor .
