URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/resources/supports/harassment-discrimination
TITLE: Harassment and discrimination

Harassment and discrimination
Your safety and well-being matter. Under the Ontario Human Rights Code , employees, including co-op students, have the right to be free from harassment and discrimination in the workplace. These protections apply to you just as they would to any permanent, part-time or contract employee.
The University of Waterloo will support you in any workplace, regardless of location, understanding that laws and policies may vary across regions. If something doesn’t feel right, support is available to help you navigate your options.
Harassment
Harassment is unwelcome comments or behaviours that are known, or should reasonably be known, to be unwelcome and that create a negative work environment.
Examples of harassment include:
Unwanted physical contact
Suggestive remarks or leering
Offensive, degrading or inappropriate jokes
Vexatious (annoying or provoking) comments
Displaying explicit images or graffiti
Retaliation for rejecting advances
Discrimination
Discrimination is unequal or unfair treatment, whether intentional or not, that imposes disadvantages or limits access to opportunities available to others.
Examples of discrimination can be based on:
Physical or mental disability
Where you were born
Family status (e.g., parenthood)
Age
Religion or cultural beliefs
What to do if something happens
Your co-op advisor will work with you while respecting your wishes and maintaining confidentiality. They can help you understand your options and connect you with the supports that best meet your needs.
Document what happened - Record dates, times, locations, witnesses and details of each incident.
Reach out for support - Contact your Co-op Advisor .
Access additional campus supports - Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Office or Counselling Services .
Report internally - If it feels safe, inform your manager, supervisor or HR representative.
In some situations, it may be necessary to share information confidentially with other University of Waterloo staff to better support you. If this happens, your advisor will make every effort to inform you in advance and involve you in the process.
In rare cases where there are concerns about your safety or the safety of others, confidentiality may need to be limited. If this is necessary, your advisor will communicate this to you as clearly and as early as possible.
Additional resources
On campus supports
Co-op Advisors provide support to students experiencing workplace harassment
Conflict Management Office
Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Office
Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Ant-Racism Members of the University of Waterloo community may request support via the EDI-R Intake Form
Members of the University of Waterloo community may request support via the EDI-R Intake Form
Office of Indigenous Relations
Counselling Services
Student Legal Protection Program Offers free legal consultation and representation for students on issues such as co-op, employment, housing and academic rights, through WUSA’s partnership with Studentcare. Notary services are also available.
Offers free legal consultation and representation for students on issues such as co-op, employment, housing and academic rights, through WUSA’s partnership with Studentcare. Notary services are also available.
Off-campus support
The Human Rights Legal Support Centre offers human rights legal advice and support services to anyone experiencing discrimination under Ontario’s Human Rights Code, when eligible. Services may also include legal assistance in filing applications at the Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario (HRTO), and legal representation at mediations and hearings.
