URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/find-job/fcs/interviews
TITLE: Full-Cycle Service job board interviews

Full-Cycle Service job board interviews
Each FCS interview period can be exciting, but it can also feel overwhelming as you balance multiple applications and interviews. This page outlines what to expect and how to navigate the Full-Cycle Service (FCS) job board interview process with confidence.
As per the co-op rules , you must conduct yourself professionally throughout the recruitment process, including attending all interviews you receive. To support a fair match process, keep interview conversations focused on the role and your qualifications. Do not discuss rankings or your plans to accept another offer before the match process.
When pursuing opportunities outside WaterlooWorks (e.g., other job boards, website, networking, etc.), expect that employers will use different recruitment timelines and hiring processes. Once you’re matched or accept a job offer, stop attending any future interviews and learn what to do next after securing employment .
If your interview is today and you have an emergency or urgent question:
Contact CEE Hub by phone (519-888-4026) or email ceehub@uwaterloo.ca for assistance. Do not send a message in WaterlooWorks.
Step 1 : Complete the Interview Contact Details and Work Search Support form
Before interviews begin, complete the required form in WaterlooWorks : WaterlooWorks > Submit a Form > Recruiting Term Support > Interview Contact Details and Work Search Support (5014).
This helps ensure employers and the Co-operative Education team can reach you if needed during the interview process.
Step 2 : Check WaterlooWorks daily for interview invitations
Monitor WaterlooWorks for interview invitations for jobs you applied to through the FCS board. Interviews typically take place on the dates listed on the important dates calendar .
Some employers may arrange their own interviews outside of FCS, so be sure to keep your contact information up to date and check your email daily. Employers can schedule interviews up to one business day in advance .
Step 3 : Choose and confirm your interview
You can view interview invitations in the “Interviews” tab of WaterlooWorks. If an employer provides available interview times, select and confirm a time that works for you. If you don't choose a time, you may be assigned one automatically. Some employers may assign you an interview time rather than asking you to select one.
Before your interview, carefully review the interview schedule, instructions and important details like:
Interview location or meeting link
Required assessments or pre-interview tasks
Work location and remote-work expectations
Contact information for interview-day issues
Check your interview details again the day before and the morning of your interview, as employers may occasionally make last-minute updates.
If you need help selecting your interview timeslot, visit WaterlooWorks Help: Interviewing for jobs , or reach out to your Co-op Advisor by selecting “Send a Message” from your WaterlooWorks dashboard.
Step 4 : Prepare for your interview
Interview formats
Every employer hires differently. Depending on the role, you may be asked to participate in:
Individual interview
Group interview
Phone interview
Webcam interview
Prerecorded interview
Learn about different interview formats
Research the organization
Researching ahead of time can help you answer questions more confidently and ask thoughtful questions throughout. Before you interview, learn about:
The organization and its mission
The team or department
The role and key responsibilities
Recent company news or projects
How your skills connect to the position
Prepare for interview questions
Interview resources
Get interview ready
Gen AI for interviews
Manage interview anxiety
Speak to a Career Advisor
Your interview rights
Off-campus interview support
You may be eligible for off-campus interview support if you're:
On a work term and searching for your next co-op position
On an academic exchange term before your next work term
Studying in Rome as a 4A Architecture student before your next work term
If you meet one of the eligibility criteria listed above, you will receive a message with information about your off-campus interview support and any next steps.
Keep in mind, all interview times and deadlines are listed in Eastern Time (ET). Your interview time may be assigned for you. Check the Interviews tab regularly to ensure employers have the correct contact information and to review any interview instructions.
If you are away from campus for other reasons, contact your Co-op Advisor to discuss your options.
Interview conflict
While you are expected to attend all interviews, we understand that conflicts can sometimes occur. If you have an interview conflict, we’ll do our best to work with you to find a solution. It is not a requirement for professors, instructors, teaching assistants or other faculty to accommodate any conflicts with co-op interviews. Let us know about your conflict through the interview conflict form on WaterlooWorks and we'll assess it on a case-by-case basis.
Examples of interview conflicts include:
Midterms, exams or other academic commitments
Mandatory medical appointments
Conflicting interview schedules
Personal or family emergencies
Significant professional or academic events
Time zone challenges for students away from campus (requested time must fall within the standard 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. ET)
Do not contact employers directly to reschedule Full-Cycle Service interviews. If you have a conflict, the CEE team will work with the employer on your behalf and do our best to identify an alternative arrangement. While employers are often willing to consider accommodation requests, they may not always be able to offer another interview time. In those cases, you may be removed from further consideration for the position.
If you have urgent interview questions, please contact CEE Hub by phone (519-888-4026) or email ceehub@uwaterloo.ca .
How to submit an interview conflict form in WaterlooWorks
Submit an interview conflict form through WaterlooWorks > Submit a Form > Recruiting Term Support > Interview Conflict – Request Alternate Time (5009). Be sure to include:
The reason for the conflict
Times you are available/unavailable
Any location or scheduling considerations
Once you’ve completed the form
We'll review the request and work with the employer to find a solution when possible
Resolution may take more than one business day
Employers are not always able to accommodate alternate interview times
If your request is approved
We'll notify you once we resolve your conflict and you'll see the updated schedule in WaterlooWorks
If you have not received an update by 4:30 p.m. ET on the business day before your interview
Contact the CEE Hub by:
Phone 519-888-4026
Email ceehub@uwaterloo.ca , or
In person on the main floor of the Tatham Centre
If your request is declined
As outlined in the co-op rules , you are obligated to attend the interview as scheduled.
We understand that unexpected situations can arise and make it difficult to attend an interview. If you're experiencing a conflict or challenge, please reach out to the CEE Hub as early as possible so we can discuss your options and provide support. Employers invest significant time and resources in participating in the co-op recruitment process, and interview spaces are limited. Missing an interview can affect an employer's experience with Waterloo students and may mean another student misses an opportunity to be considered for the role.
Step 5: Attend your interview
Whether your interview is in person, virtual or by phone, plan to arrive or join early and be prepared to participate professionally.
Need additional support?
Interviews don't always go as planned, and that's okay. Whether you're dealing with concerns about an interview, feeling overwhelmed by the process or miss an interview altogether, there are supports available to help you navigate these situations.
Interview concerns
Sometimes, a circumstance may develop during or after an interview that may raise concerns about the role or employer. For example, the position discussed during the interview may differ significantly from what was described in the job posting. If you have serious concerns about a job or employer following an interview, please reach out to your Co-op Advisor as soon as possible.
Feeling overwhelmed by your interview schedule
If you need support managing a large number of interviews, you may be able to request interview relief.
Submit an interview relief form through WaterlooWorks as early as possible. Visit WaterlooWorks > Submit a Form > Recruiting Term Support > Request for interview relief (5012).
If approved:
Your application will be withdrawn.
You will no longer be considered for that position.
You should not contact the employer regarding the withdrawn application.
Please note that interview relief requests are assessed on a case-by-case basis and are not automatically approved.
If your interview is the same day, or it is after 3p.m. ET on the business day before the interview, call the CEE Hub instead of submitting a form.
If you miss an interview
When you apply for jobs through WaterlooWorks, you're expected to attend any interviews you receive. Attending interviews demonstrates professionalism and gives you the opportunity to learn more about potential roles.
If you miss an interview:
We will contact you to learn what happened.
You may be asked to provide a written explanation.
Missing multiple interviews may result in consequences, which are assessed on a case-by-case basis. If this happens, you'll still be able to arrange your own job for co-op credit and continue to access support from your Co-op Advisor and the Centre for Career Development .
