URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/
TITLE: Welcome Waterloo co-op students!

Welcome Waterloo co-op students!
Explore careers, gain experience and earn money through North America's largest co-op program.
Our students are some of the best and brightest, and our employers know it! One thing is for sure: co-op at Waterloo exists because of YOU and your talent. Now that you're here, we're committed to helping you have the most positive co-op experience possible.
What is co-op?
Important dates
WaterlooWorks
So, what's co-op like?
"When I came to Waterloo, I didn’t know what I wanted to do and I felt so behind. The Waterloo co-op program is really great to get an idea of different roles and using that knowledge can be useful to figure out exactly what you really enjoy doing."
Read more about Himani's co-op terms
“That's something that I'm very appreciative to have co-op for because we only have four-month time intervals in these positions to try out the job and the company, instead of being locked in for a year or more.”
Learn more about Misha's co-op experience
"A valuable lesson I learned from this experience is to take pride in your major; passion transcends traditional expectations. Co-op has given me invaluable insights and practical learning that extend beyond my classroom learning."
See what Audrey has to say about co-op
Find your co-op job
There are many ways to find a co-op job! Many students start their search on WaterlooWorks, but there are other options to consider to help find a job that fits your goals and meets the requirement for co-op credit.
Job search support
Supports and resources
Need help navigating co-op at Waterloo? Co-op can be challenging, but we're here for you every step of the way. Check out our online supports and if you have any questions you can connect with your co-op advisor.
Explore supports and resources
Info sessions, events and workshops See what's happening!
See what's happening!
Your co-op advisor Have questions?
Have questions?
Blog
Finding the people behind data
Iba Abbasi | 5 min read
Rasana Yogarajan’s co-op journey showed her that data has the greatest impact when paired with communication, storytelling and connection.
Mathematics ;
Job Applications ;
Making an impact ;
Co-op tips ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
Composting new possibilities in Thailand
Iba Abbasi | 5.5 min read
In rural Thailand, Timea Siket is learning that meaningful research can start with community needs, hands-on problem-solving and the freedom to innovate.
Science ;
Work abroad ;
Research ;
Sustainability ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
Connecting communities through science and consulting
By: Iba Abbasi | 4 min read
Stepping into his first professional workplace, Ethan Pruchnicki expected to learn technical skills. Instead, he discovered confidence, found his voice and realized that growth often begins outside your comfort zone.
Co-op tips ;
Science ;
Overcoming challenges ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
News
Waterloo-Thailand partnership transforming student experiences
By: Emily Totzke
A growing partnership between the University of Waterloo and Suranaree University of Technology opens the door to transformative international experiences for students.
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
International ;
Faculty of Engineering ;
Faculty of Science
Using GenAI in interviews: What students need to know
By: Mary Lynne Bartlett
Check out new content to help you make informed decisions about when and how to use these GenAI tools in the interview process.
Current students → Current undergraduate students ; Current students → Current graduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students ; Future students → Future graduate students ;
Faculty ;
Staff ;
Parents ;
Employers
Celebrating co-op student achievements during work-integrated learning month
By: Emily Totzke (she/her)
Co-operative and Experiential Education honours Waterloo co-op students whose innovation and leadership shaped industries this year.
Current students → Current undergraduate students ; Current students → Current graduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students ; Future students → Future graduate students ;
Faculty ;
Staff ;
Alumni ;
Employers ;
Media
