URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/your-co-op-fee
TITLE: Your co-op fee

Your co-op fee
What is the co-op fee for?
Your student-paid co-op fee funds the delivery of the co-op program at Waterloo. Like tuition, this fee is required for all students enrolled in a co-op program.
The co-op fee is not a job-finding fee per work term. It is a pro-rated fee that, throughout a student's degree, recovers the full costs associated with running the co-op program.
The costs of running the co-op program include staff salaries and benefits, space occupancy (e.g. heat, electricity), technology, supplies, marketing and advertising, and other job development costs. Co-operative Education practices fiscal responsibility and works to reduce costs to keep the co-op fee as low as possible while delivering a quality co-op program.
The co-op fee is the primary source of funding for Co-operative Education. Other funding sources outside of the fee are used for specific projects (e.g. donations for the Co-op for Community program fund student salaries to work at non-profit organizations).
As a co-op student, you pay the fee in installments throughout your time at Waterloo. All undergraduate students in a co-op program pay the co-op fee. All graduate students in a co-op program supported by Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) pay the fee.
Your 2026/2027 co-op fee
The co-op fee for 2026/2027 is $836, an increase of $19 or 2.4% from the 2025/2026 fee.
The fee change reflects increased costs due to inflation and annual salary increases.
Like the rest of the institution, Co-operative Education is reducing expenses.
Learn more about our annual co-op fee review process , which includes communications with student representatives.
2026/2027 co-op fee
Your 2026/2027 co-op fee amount and breakdown
The co-op fee amount for 2026/2027 is $836. This amount represents a $19, or 2.4%, increase from 2025/2026.
Co-operative Education determined this amount using our annual financial analysis and fee-setting process, which includes student consultations. The fee was approved by the Board of Governors in February 2026.
As a co-op student, you’ll pay the co-op fee multiple times throughout your degree. Your academic program determines when the co-op fee appears as a charge on your account in Quest . The cost of participating in co-op is spread throughout your degree to minimize the fees you’ll need to pay in any given term.
We are committed to transparency, fiscal responsibility and providing accurate and up-to-date information about your co-op fee on this page. If you have questions about your co-op fee, please use this form .
How is the co-op fee set?
CEE reviews the co-op fee each year to align with projected costs and determine whether an increase is needed. Factors such as inflation/costs, improvements in service and salary changes can influence the amount of the co-op fee each year. The co-op fee review process includes consultation with students and input on the services that the co-op fee funds. Learn more about the review process .
Across CEE, we continuously work to reduce our costs and practice fiscal responsibility to keep the co-op fee as low as we can while delivering a quality co-operative education program.
Co-op employment process - $72
With thousands of students and employers, the core employment process must function effectively. Some key areas that funds in this category support include:
setting up WaterlooWorks before the start of term and ensuring it's ready for the incoming users
approving jobs and validating the appropriate clusters/levels
scheduling interviews through WaterlooWorks
facilitating interview day services including all the support for both students and employers
running the rank/match process and communicating the results to students and employers
confirming and approving Arranged Own Jobs (AOJs)
upgrading and improving WaterlooWorks
paying salaries and benefits for staff focused on this work
Co-op advising, program and resource development - $230
Student success is critical to co-operative education and advising students to support their success is an important part of that process. Among other things, co-op advising includes:
a dedicated, faculty-aligned support person for all co-op students throughout their co-op career including during recruitment and work terms
resource design and development targeting the changing and emerging needs and challenges of students in diverse situations
consults for any students working with a new employer, on their first or second to last work term, or in need of a consult based on their eCheckin responses
salaries and benefits for staff focused on this work
Twenty-eight per cent of our operating budget is allocated to advising co-op students, programming and resource development expenses. We’ve broken this down even further:
6% of our operating budget goes toward specialized student support including pre-first work term programming and international advising
16% of our operating budget goes toward work term support and advising scheduled and requested student consults support and help for students and their supervisors when facing issues
6% of our operating budget goes toward general recruiting term support including students who are off campus for any reason (such as on an exchange)
Employer relationship management - $126
We work with more than 8,000 active employers. Many of the top employers in the world hire from Waterloo. Nurturing employer relationships is crucial to the success of our co-op program. To maintain this level of employer partnership, the co-op fee helps to support:
working with employers to understand their hiring needs
facilitating info sessions and resources for employers to attract students
monitoring jobs throughout the process to ensure they are moving toward a hire
paying salaries and benefits for staff focused on this work
Faculty and institutional relations - $28
Academic programming is very much aligned with the co-op program. Communication between faculties and co-op is integral. Co-operative Education maintains strong relationships within the faculties to support more than 120 co-op programs. The co-op fee helps to support:
feasibility studies for new co-op programs
program reviews for existing co-op programs
liaising and strengthening relationships across each of the six faculties and other campus institutions
paying salaries and benefits for staff focused on this work
New job development - $101
The University's employer network stretches across 60+ countries. Our business development team engages with hundreds of prospective employers through virtual events, networking, industry association partnerships and targeted promotions and advertising. New business is a priority to ensure the growth of Co-operative Education at Waterloo. The co-op fee helps to support:
increasing the number of students hired and the diversity of programs employers hire from
onboarding of new employers - including coaching on funding opportunities, program options, hiring procedures and effective student coaching/evaluation using a research-based approach to understand key job market trends and emerging industries, roles and opportunities to engage new employers
seeking external funding opportunities (e.g., CEWIL iHUB, Mitacs)
paying salaries and benefits for staff focused on this work
Infrastructure and administration - $158
Our infrastructure and administration support all five areas of work listed above. The co-op fee supports infrastructure and administration including:
technical support for posting, interviewing and hiring co-op students
WaterlooWorks licensing and maintenance
systems management and administration
process improvement, pilots and new program development
external relations (e.g., association work, delegation representations)
paying salaries and benefits for staff focused on this work
University services and occupancy costs - $121
This category represents the cost of the Co-operative Education department’s use of the University’s services (e.g., Finance, Legal and Immigration Services, Central Stores, Information Systems & Technology, Procurement, Safety Office etc.) and the space to do our work. The administrative fee charged to Co-operative Education is based on total costs incurred.
Space occupancy costs represent the costs of utilities and maintenance for campus space Co-operative Education uses and are calculated based on net-assignable square metres at specified rates.
Back to top
Co-op fee by program
The number of times you pay the co-op fee varies by program. The co-op fee is associated with your enrollment in the co-op program (like tuition). It is not a "job-finding fee" per work term . Instead, it represents the cost of running the co-op program and is spread out over a number of terms.
The following information shows when you’ll start to pay the fee and for how many times you’ll need to pay the fee (per program) throughout your undergraduate or graduate career. If you don’t see your CEE-supported graduate program listed, check out the information for graduate students section for a list of graduate co-op programs supported by their respective program/department.
If you extend your program for additional academic terms, you will not pay additional co-op fees. The number of times you pay the fee (per program) is shown in the “Total times paid” column below. You can get an estimated total cost by multiplying the current fee by the number of times you pay. For example:
$836 x 8 = $6,688
$836 x 6 = $5,016
$836 x 5 = $4,180
$836 x 4 = $3,344
$836 x 3 = $2,508
$836 x 2 = $1,672
Note: The $836 co-op fee amount is for the 2026/27 fiscal year only (May 1, 2026 to April 30, 2027) - it is reviewed annually and is subject to change. Visit the Tuition Fee Schedule to find out your fees based on your program and the current term.
See when and how often you pay based on your faculty and program:
Arts
Undergraduate programs
Programs following 2019 undergraduate calendar forward:
Program
When you will begin paying
Total times paid
Programs following the 2018 undergraduate calendar or earlier can connect with an academic advisor for co-op fee information.
Graduate programs
Students beginning their program in Spring 2025 (or earlier)
Connect with your graduate co-ordinator for co-op fee information.
Students beginning their program in Fall 2025 and beyond
Grad co-op fees are assessed on the program's first study term, with the remaining fee(s) assessed during each subsequent work term:
Program
When you will begin paying
Total times paid
*The total number of co-op fees assessed to the student is dependent on the number of work terms.
Engineering
Undergraduate programs
Programs following 2019 undergraduate calendar forward:
Graduate programs
Students beginning their program in Spring 2025 (or earlier)
Connect with your graduate co-ordinator for co-op fee information.
Students beginning their program in Fall 2025 and beyond
Grad co-op fees are assessed on the program's first study term, with the remaining fee(s) assessed during each subsequent work term:
*The total number of co-op fees assessed to the student is dependent on the number of work terms.
**First study term upon admittance to the Co-op program.
Environment
Undergraduate programs
Health
Undergraduate programs
Mathematics
Undergraduate programs
Graduate programs
Students beginning their program in Spring 2025 (or earlier)
Connect with your graduate co-ordinator for co-op fee information.
Students beginning their program in Fall 2025 and beyond
Grad co-op fees are assessed on the program's first study term, with the remaining fee(s) assessed during each subsequent work term:
*The total number of co-op fees assessed to the student is dependent on the number of work terms.
**First study term upon admittance to the Co-op program.
Science
Undergraduate programs
Back to top
How the co-op fee is determined and set each year
We’ve outlined the process and dates used to set the 2026/2027 co-op fee amount of $836.
Assessing current year financial position based on estimated budget, expenses incurred to date and estimated expenses for the balance of the fiscal year
Forecasting future years’ financial position based on estimated budget and expenses
Provost
Stakeholder Review Group (Co-operative and Experiential Education, IAP, Integrated Planning and Budgeting Office, Finance, WUSA, GSA)
Co-op Student Council (WUSA, GSA, student society representation)
Co-operative and Experiential Education Council (CEEC)
Undergrad Student Relations Committee
Graduate Student Relations Committee
Back
to
top
