URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/resources
TITLE: Supports and resources

Supports and resources
Co‑operative and Experiential Education (CEE) offers a range of services and supports to help you navigate your co‑op journey with confidence. Whether you’re exploring opportunities, adjusting your plans or managing challenges, you’ll find guidance and resources to support your well‑being, success and sense of connection every step of the way.
Co-op rules
Co-op supports
Sequence changes
Mental health
Info sessions, events and workshops
International student supports
Connect with your co-op advisor
Your co-op advisor is here to support you before, during and after your work term. Whether you have questions, need guidance or want to explore your options, your advisor can help connect you with the right resources and next steps.
Connect with your co-op advisor by sending them a message on WaterlooWorks. If you’re heading into an international (non‑U.S.) work term, you may be matched with a specialized advisor to support your experience abroad.
Your co-op advisor
Co-op tips and advice
Hear from fellow co-op students about the tips and advice they have from navigating their own co-op experiences.
Connecting communities through science and consulting
By: Iba Abbasi | 4 min read
Stepping into his first professional workplace, Ethan Pruchnicki expected to learn technical skills. Instead, he discovered confidence, found his voice and realized that growth often begins outside your comfort zone.
Five tips for working remotely as a co-op student
With the increase of remote work over recent years, many of you have probably been asked by your employer to work remotely.
Where product meets possibility
Iba Abbasi | 5 min read
Chantelle Thierry explored product marketing, strategy and management, using each experience to better understand where her skills, interests and goals aligned.
Answering your questions about co-op
Learn from fellow co-op students! Discover other co-op student experiences, job search tips, tips for applying, interviews and more.
Students answers questions like:
How many jobs do I apply to?
What is the average pay I should expect?
What happens if I don't find a job on time?
View our video series
