URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/work-term/safety
TITLE: Workplace safety, compensation and insurance

Workplace safety, compensation and insurance
It’s important to familiarize yourself with the emergency protocols at your workplace during a work term. Employers should have established health and safety processes to handle a wide variety of workplace incidents. In all cases, ensure your own safety and connect with your supervisor and/or workplace safety representative at your employer.
What to do in an emergency
If you experience an emergency in the workplace, call the local emergency number immediately -  911 if you are in Canada or the United States. You can also access additional emergency contact options including the University of Waterloo Special Constable Service and resources for assistance abroad. Be sure to familiarize yourself in advance about who to contact in an emergency. Once you are safe, remember to notify your Co-op Advisor about your situation so they can support you appropriately.
In case of a natural disaster or major incident in your location:
Get to a safe place and stay there.
Follow the news and local police service websites for alerts and developments.
Keep your phones and laptops charged so you can stay connected.
Communicate with your family to let them know where and how you are.
Let your employer know where and how you are and follow their direction.
Contact your Co-op Advisor to let them know who you are with, if you are safe and what support (if any) you may need so we can assist.
In the event of natural disasters, we will reach out to you using your contact information in WaterlooWorks. If we cannot reach you directly, we will attempt to reach the emergency contact listed on your Risk Management Form for international work terms or your contact and travel info in your work term record for Canadian and U.S. work terms. Ensure your contact information in WaterlooWorks is up to date each term.
Safety at work
Your safety while on a work term is a top priority. It’s important to know that you have rights and responsibilities for your safety, your actions and others affected by your actions. The University adheres to the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA) and bases its principles around workplace health and safety on the OHSA.
The OHSA guarantees you three basic rights:
Knowledge: your employer must inform you about hazards in the workplace. Ask if you’re not sure if something is dangerous.
Participation: you have the right to make recommendations on health and safety issues.;
Refusal: you have the right to refuse any work if you believe it endangers yourself or others.
Your employer must ensure a safe working environment by:
Ensuring that you use the required equipment, protective devices and clothing.
Advising you of potential danger.
Informing you about the WHMIS program (Workplace Hazardous Material Information System) and provide workplace-specific training.
If you have safety concerns about your job or if an accident or “near miss” occurs while you are on a work term:
Report it to your supervisor immediately.
Always inform your Co-op Advisor of any safety concern, accident or near miss. They'll reach out within one business day to offer support and guidance as you work through the incident with your employer. At the same time, we'll work with your employer to gather information about the incident and will follow up with them to discuss your concerns.
If you’re asked to complete a work task that may risk your well-being and your employer does not support your right to refuse, please notify your Co-op Advisor immediately.
Legislation
Canadian employers outside of Ontario adhere to acts similar to the OHSA. A list of the government departments responsible for governing occupational health and safety in each province can be found on the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety website .
Employees of the federal government or workplaces under federal jurisdiction, such as banks and post offices, are covered under the Canada Labour Code .
International safety
Before you begin your international co-op work term, take time to prepare for potential emergencies and familiarize yourself with important safety considerations to help ensure a safe and successful experience abroad.
Work abroad safely
Planning for emergencies abroad
If you have safety concerns while on a work term outside of Canada, and want to leave your work term early, please contact your Co-op Advisor as soon as possible. You may be eligible for an exception to having a Failed Work Term Status assigned for leaving a work term early. An exception aligns with the University's guidance for international travel and existing international travel policy . Please review the Global Engagement Office’s Travelling to the United States FAQs for more information.
Legislation
In the United States, workplace health and safety is governed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration .
Workplace safety standards and best practices vary from country to country. If you have questions about workplace safety standards for a work term outside of Canada, contact our International Team .
Compensation
To understand what compensation you’re entitled to, start by reviewing your employment agreement. You should also review your employer’s compensation policies during the job application and interview process. If you need further clarification or believe your agreement may not align with applicable standards, you can contact the Ontario Ministry of Labour and/or the Human Resources and Skills Development Canada Office .
If you are a co-op student employed in Ontario, you are not covered under the Ontario Employment Standards Act . This means that employers are not required to provide :
Paid vacation days (though some may agree if the request is reasonable)
Paid time off for statutory holidays (though most do)
Paid overtime
Notice or severance pay in the case of an early termination of employment
Income tax
There may be exceptions if you work in an industry regulated by the federal government. In these cases, you may be covered under the Canada Labour Code . If you are working outside of Ontario, make sure to learn about the employment laws and compensation standards in your work location.
If you have any questions about compensation, please contact your Co-op Advisor .
You could have co-op employment anywhere in the world. Taxes can change quite substantially between provinces and countries. It is your responsibility to carefully review all tax-related onboarding documents an employer provides for your work term.
In Canada, at the start of your work term, you may need to complete a TD1 form for tax purposes. You’ll be expected to pay taxes, unless your income is below the exemption limit.
For more information about Canadian income tax, review the tax tips for university students resource developed by the School of Accounting and Finance. For general income tax inquiries, you can call the Canada Revenue Agency at 1-800-959-8281.
Insurance
Insurance helps protect you if you’re injured or become ill during your co-op work term. Having the right coverage can ensure your medical costs are paid and that you have financial support while you recover.
No matter where you work (Canada or internationally) or whether your role is paid or unpaid/underpaid, you are responsible for confirming what insurance coverage you have if you’re injured or become ill at work. In some situations, you may need to purchase additional private insurance.
Workplace insurance (Canada)
In Canada, many workers are covered by their provincial Workers’ Compensation Board . These programs provide no-fault coverage for work-related injuries or illness. If your employer participates in this system, you may be eligible for:
Wage replacement (a portion of your earnings)
Coverage for medical expenses
Support during recovery
Workplace Safety and Insurance Board (Ontario)
Most Ontario workers are covered by the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board (WSIB) . If you’re covered by WSIB:
Your coverage begins on your first day of work
You may receive 85% of your net earnings if you’re injured
Medical costs related to your injury are covered
If you’re injured at work:
Report the injury to your employer immediately
Ensure your employer submits a WSIB report (Form 7)
Contact your co-op advisor so we can support you
Some industries that are not automatically covered by WSIB include:
Banks, trusts and insurance companies
Barbers and hair salons
Membership organizations (such as labour organizations, professional associations, political organizations, etc.)
Motion picture producers
Offices of lawyers, dentists, medical doctors and veterinarians
Photographers
Radio and television broadcasters
Touring and travel agencies
Some of these industries may not offer workplace insurance. Ask your work term supervisor what coverage is available. If there’s no coverage, the employer could still be held legally responsible if you are injured. To protect yourself, consider using your student or family extended health insurance.
International insurance
When you’re on an international work term, you must have health insurance coverage for as long as you’re on your work term.
If you have any questions, email our International Team:
cecausaies@uwaterloo.ca for USA jobs
cecainties@uwaterloo.ca for international jobs
Independent contractors
If you work as an independent contractor, you may not be covered by your employer’s insurance plan. Coverage depends on where you live or where the company operates. It’s important to check what protection you have and decide if you need to arrange your own workers’ compensation insurance, as this may be an extra cost to consider before accepting the role.
Coverage for unpaid work terms
Co-op students completing an unpaid work term in Ontario (earning $500 or less for the entire term) are considered unpaid learners by the Ministry of Colleges, Universities, Research Excellence and Security (Ministry). This coverage is provided at no cost to the employer, and students may be eligible for compensation if they are injured at work.
Note: Students participating in a work term funded through a scholarship are not eligible for Ministry coverage. In addition, international students are not covered if they complete an unpaid work term in their country of primary residence. For more details, visit the Safety Office .
If you’re injured on the job as an unpaid learner, the following are applied:
For employers outside of the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act, the Ministry has an insurance policy with Chubb Insurance. The Ministry coverage for unpaid learners applies to students when: The employment is authorized by a Waterloo faculty or department The student participates in the activities of the co-op employer's industry
The employment is authorized by a Waterloo faculty or department
The student participates in the activities of the co-op employer's industry
Any compensation is covered by the Ministry or Chubb Insurance
Employers won’t incur costs for WSIB claims
Employers under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act are covered by the WSIB.
Note: Waterloo students who do unpaid research at the University are not considered unpaid learners under the insurance policy. For more information on insurance for students on unpaid work terms, visit the Safety Office or contact your co-op advisor.
If you arrange your own unpaid co-op position, it must meet the guidelines for unpaid co-op work terms . Once approved, your Co-op Advisor will work with CEE to arrange workplace insurance coverage with the employer. Do not begin working until this process is complete. You will also need to complete the required forms so that coverage can be put in place.
