URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/rules/petitions
TITLE: Petitions and grievances

Petitions and grievances
Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) is committed to supporting you throughout your co-op program, including in situations where extenuating circumstances affect your ability to meet co-op requirements. If something has occurred that negatively impacts your success in co-op, your Co-op Advisor is available to help you understand your options and next steps.
Petition for exception to co-op regulations
Under Policy 70 (Student Petitions and Grievances) , a petition is a formal request for an exception to, or relief from, standard University or faculty rules and regulations, where there are extenuating circumstances. Examples of co-op petitions include:
Co-op credit eligibility (e.g., graduating on a work term, a work term following no or part-time study, work term requirements or retroactive credit consideration)
Suppression of a student performance evaluation
Reconsideration of WaterlooWorks status or co-op credit (e.g., leaving a work term early or reneging on an employment agreement)
Submitting a petition
Submitting a petition gives you the opportunity to explain your circumstances in writing and outline why you believe an exception is warranted. A committee reviews each petition individually and assesses on a case-by-case basis. Decisions are informed by:
Your WaterlooWorks record, including your sequence, work history and relevant communication with CEE
Your written submission
Any supporting documentation you provide, including: Certification of illness or injury from a medical professional* Employment agreements or contracts Statements from employers regarding work hours or conditions Documentation related to personal difficulties from an appropriate support professional or service (e.g., Counselling Services, AccessAbility Services, a university chaplain, or other clergy, etc.)* Verification of bereavement (such as an obituary notice) Court documents or police reports Hospital records with dates*
Certification of illness or injury from a medical professional*
Employment agreements or contracts
Statements from employers regarding work hours or conditions
Documentation related to personal difficulties from an appropriate support professional or service (e.g., Counselling Services, AccessAbility Services, a university chaplain, or other clergy, etc.)*
Verification of bereavement (such as an obituary notice)
Court documents or police reports
Hospital records with dates*
* All medical documentation is reviewed by a clinical records evaluator and is not retained or reviewed by CEE.
We encourage you to include all relevant facts and documentation when you submit your petition.
Petition review process
The Co-op Petitions Committee reviews petitions for exception to co-op regulations. It includes four voting members:
a Co-op Advisor,
an Employer Experience Manager,
a Faculty Relations Manager, and
a student representative from Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association .
The committee is chaired by the Director, Student and Faculty Relations. The committee meets weekly and typically communicates final decisions by email within one week of the meeting . From submission to decision, the process may take up to three weeks, depending on the completeness of your petition and supporting documentation. Petitions may be expedited in cases involving workplace safety concerns, harassment or discrimination.
Decisions related to co-op degree requirements, including work term reports/reflections and PD courses, are not under the jurisdiction of CEE. For these matters, follow your faculty’s standard petition or grievance processes.
For questions related specifically to petitions for exception to co-op regulations, contact co-op.petitions@uwaterloo.ca .
How to submit a petition
Discuss the petition process with your Co-op Advisor or your academic/program advisor, including relevant timelines and the desired outcome.
As appropriate, gather all relevant supporting documents that support the petition.
Fill out the appropriate online form: Undergraduate students — fill out the Petition for Exception to Academic Regulations (Form 70A) . Graduate students — fill out the Petition for Exception to Academic Regulations - Graduate Students (Form 70A) .
Undergraduate students — fill out the Petition for Exception to Academic Regulations (Form 70A) .
Graduate students — fill out the Petition for Exception to Academic Regulations - Graduate Students (Form 70A) .
Provide a summary of your extenuating circumstances and, as appropriate, upload any documentation before submitting the petition form.
Additional information
Petitions allow you to continue progressing through your academic studies when circumstances beyond your control affect participation in co-op.
Extenuating circumstances may include situations such as illness, bereavement or significant changes in personal circumstances.
Petitions are not considered after a degree has been awarded.
Petition decisions are final and cannot be appealed. However, if significant new information or documentation becomes available, the committee may consider reopening a petition.
If you are on a study permit, we encourage you to meet with an immigration consultant to discuss potential impacts of petitions decisions on your post-graduate work permit.
Undergraduate students can access support for the submission process through the Centre for Academic Policy Support (CAPS) provided by WUSA.
Grievances
If you feel that a decision made by CEE is unfair, unreasonable or made in error, and you have discussed the matter with your Co-op Advisor and remain dissatisfied with the resulting decision, you may choose to proceed with an official grievance under the Student Petitions and Grievances Policy (Policy 70) .
How to submit a grievance
Discuss the grievance process with your Co-op Advisor or Academic/ Program Advisor, including relevant timelines and the desired outcome.
Gather all relevant supporting documents that support the grievance.
For undergraduate and graduate students - fill out the Notice of Challenge (Form 70B) .
Attach any documentation and submit the completed package via email to the Director, Student and Faculty Relations, Co-operative and Experiential Education: co-op.petitions@uwaterloo.ca .
Questions about grievances or the submission process can be directed to co-op.petitions@uwaterloo.ca .
