URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/blog/every-aspiring-psychologists-dream-role
TITLE: Every aspiring psychologist’s dream role: A psychologist assistant journey

Every aspiring psychologist’s dream role: A psychologist assistant journey
Audrey Gunawan (she/her) is a third-year Psychology student in the Faculty of Arts. She shares details about her first co-op term at Dr. John W. Lee Psychological Consulting.
Audrey's co-op journey
Work term one: In her first work term, Audrey landed her dream job as a psychologist assistant at Dr. John W. Lee Psychological Consulting . She learned valuable skills and developed connections with co-workers solidifying her passion for psychology.
How did you hear about the #MyCo-opExperience Blog?
"I first learned about the #MyCo-opExperience blog through Instagram, where I came across other student’s posts and stories. Their reflections deeply resonated with my experiences.”
“I wanted to use this platform to not only share my experiences, but to express my gratitude for the co-op opportunity I had. I would like to inspire and encourage other Psychology students to recognize that they too can pursue rewarding experiences.”
How did you find your psychologist assistant job?
“I originally discovered my psychologist assistant job through TikTok. I later saw the job posted on WaterlooWorks, where I officially applied.”
“This opportunity immediately stood out to me. It was actually the first job I applied for! Even though this was my first co-op term, and the posting expressed a preference for upper-year students, I took a chance, believed in myself and applied.”
What have you learned from co-op as a Faculty of Arts student?
“As a Faculty of Arts student, my co-op experience has shown me that the ideal job exists for everyone—and when you find it, you should take the opportunity. I prepared for the interview, put my best foot forward and Dr. Lee had the confidence to take a chance on me, even without prior co-op experience.”
“I've realized that regardless of your field of study, persistence and an open mind will lead you to the right opportunity—one that will shape your future in meaningful ways.”
Another valuable lesson I learned from this experience is to take pride in your major; passion transcends traditional expectations. Co-op has given me invaluable insights and practical learning that extend beyond my classroom learning, helping me envision my future career path!
How do you build lasting relationships with co-workers and managers while on co-op?
“One of the most fulfilling aspects of this co-op experience was the connections I've formed. Working alongside a team that values support and collaboration has shown me just how vital a positive, connected team culture is for both personal and professional growth.”
“A true highlight was working with Dr. Lee, a clinical psychologist who not only trained me as a psychology assistant but also became a dedicated mentor. Dr. Lee was deeply invested in my development and the well-being of the team. The co-workers I met have become close friends, each bringing unique strengths that made our team dynamic stronger.”
“I’ve learned that being authentic and fostering genuine connections with your team leads to productivity but also personal bonds. This experience has given me an invaluable mentor and lifelong friends who have enriched my career journey in ways I’ll always cherish.”
How has co-op helped you with your career goals?
“This co-op position has equipped me with invaluable skills, hands-on experiences and a strengthened sense of professionalism that will benefit me throughout my career journey! Relevant jobs related to clinical psychology are hard to find in co-op.”
“I’ve gained critical insights by meeting with clients, managing daily administrative tasks and adapting to the varied demands of a psychology practice. These skills are essential for a future in the field of psychology.”
“Additionally, this role allowed me to explore and deepen my passion for social media marketing, a significant part of the company’s outreach. Having the chance to merge my interests was truly the best of both worlds! This unique blend of responsibilities has refined my career goals and expanded my vision of how I can make a meaningful impact in the future.”
Who is Dr. Lee and what does he do?
“Dr. Lee is passionate about sharing science-backed psychological tips, guiding people toward financial independence and supporting students pursuing careers in mental health.”
“His social media accounts focus on these areas, offering valuable insights. I highly recommend checking out his blog and TikTok accounts—they provide a wealth of knowledge on psychology, practical tips for financial freedom and build confidence in your future career goals.”
“These platforms, developed with the dedication and expertise of Dr. Lee and his team, might inspire and enrich your own professional journey!”
What's next for you?
"I am committed to finding another valuable co-op opportunity, like the experience I had in this work term. My ultimate goal is to open my own clinic as a child psychologist, driven by my passion for supporting the next generation.”
“I am interested in the multifaceted nature of children and adolescents’ mental health and aspire to make a lasting impact.  I hope to engage in potential research projects and additional co-op opportunities that will further develop and refine my skills!”
Arts ;
Professional Development ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
