URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/find-job/external/funded
TITLE: Find a job through funded programs

Find a job through funded programs
Whether you’re searching for a co-op job through WaterlooWorks or arranging your own, funded program can help support your job search experience. These programs include options that you can apply to directly, as well as funding that helps employers offset the cost of hiring.
Understanding these options can strengthen your job search and conversations with employers by highlighting available financial support. Be sure to check program websites for the most up-to-date details and connect with your Co-op Advisor if you’d like help discussing funding opportunities with employers.
Funded programs students can apply for
These programs allow you to apply directly for funding or funding-supported opportunities, often before securing a job. In some cases, securing funding approval can help you access jobs where funding is already attached.
ECO Canada – Pre-approved subsidy for environmental WIL positions
Students must be Canadian citizens, permanent residents or have refugee status
Students can be enrolled on a full-time or part-time basis
Students do not need to be enrolled in a co-op program to apply
Students do not need to have secured a WIL opportunity to apply​
Environment and sustainability-focused WIL positions across all industries.
Students do not need to be enrolled in an environment or sustainability program – students studying science, technology, engineering, art, math and business are all welcome to apply.
Mitacs Business Strategy Internship program (available to international students)
The Mitacs Business Strategy Internship (BSI) program provides students with the opportunity to develop an innovative project in partnership with a company or not-for-profit organization in Canada.
Canadian, permanent resident, refugee status and international students are all eligible to participate
Undergraduates, graduate students (PhD and masters), postdoctoral fellows and recent grads (within two years) are all eligible to participate
STEP Services - Government of Manitoba student employment program
To work for the Province of Manitoba as a student employee, you must meet be:
At least 16 years of age at the time of employment
Attending school either full-time or part-time during the current academic year and returning in the fall.
Note: International students are eligible to register with STEP Services and work in government departments. International students must possess a valid study permit to be eligible to work in Canada.
To maximize your chances of being selected, register as soon as possible after January 1. Registration is valid for one calendar year, and students may re-register each year starting in January.
Hiring takes place year-round, with the peak period occurring in early April ahead of the summer full-time and part-time program.
Venture for Canada – Startup and small business internship program
Students must be Canadian citizens, permanent residents or have refugee status
Students can be enrolled on a full-time or part-time basis
Students do not need to be enrolled in a co-op program to apply
Students do not need to have secured a WIL opportunity to apply
Young Canada Works - Government of Canada programs for students seeking spring/summer co-op opportunities
Two programs offered by Young Canada Works:
Young Canada Works in Heritage Organizations
This summer job program runs for six to 16 weeks and provides students with opportunities to work at heritage-focused organizations across Canada. Participants may help organize cultural or recreational activities or gain hands-on experience in preserving and promoting Canada’s cultural heritage.
Young Canada Works in Both Official Languages
This summer job program lasts between six and 16 weeks, and offers students job opportunities with organizations which conduct activities in both official languages. Students can gain practical work experience while improving their second language skills.
Students must be Canadian citizens, permanent residents or have refugee status
Students must be legally entitled to work in Canada
Students must be currently enrolled and returning to studies
Note: Please visit the website for full eligibility requirements – requirements vary by program.
Learn more about who can apply to Young Canada Works in Both Official Languages and Young Canada in Heritage Organizations .
There is no deadline for students to apply, but it is recommended that applicants create an account and submit their candidacy before the summer.
Funding opportunities for employers located in Canada
These funding options are available to Canadian employers and can help reduce the cost of hiring co-op students. You can share this information with employers you’re connecting with to support hiring discussions.
If an employer seems interested in applying for funding or has any questions:
They must fill out any funding applications themselves — students cannot apply or fill out forms on their behalf.
If they have questions about applying for funding or hiring a student more generally, they can contact hire.talent@uwaterloo.ca
Student Work Placement Program
Tax credits and incentives
Small business funding
More funding opportunities
