URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/resources/sequence-change
TITLE: Request for academic/work term sequence change

Request for academic/work term sequence change
You may request consideration for a change to your co-op academic/work term sequence. Carefully review all the information on this page, complete the form and submit through our online tool, Decisions. If you have any questions about sequence changes, please connect with your Academic Advisor or Math Co-op Sequence Change Advisor.
How to request a sequence change
Submit your sequence change request through the online tool, Decisions (login with your WatIAM). You can stay updated on the status of your sequence change through your student dashboard.
Before you submit:
Your sequence change request must still allow you to meet the academic requirements of your program. Please consult with your Academic Advisor (or Math Co-op Sequence Change Advisor) to ensure the proposed change is possible before submitting the sequence change request. Check the academic requirements for your program and plan out your future terms by reviewing the Undergraduate Calendar (or Graduate Studies Calendar for graduate students) and schedule of classes .
If you are requesting a work term longer than eight months, you must:
Be in good academic standing
Be enrolled in a full-time course load prior to the work term
Have earned at least one COOP course credit
Apply before your 4A term
Have enough remaining work terms to accommodate the longer work term without adding additional work terms. Typically, 12–16-month work term will replace future work terms in a sequence.
Please note, except for international students returning to their home country for a work term, 16-month work terms outside of Canada are typically not possible. For 12-month work terms, please consult with an International Employment Specialist .
Requests will not be considered if you:
Are requesting to extend your first work term to 12–16 months
Are trying to move an earlier unemployed work term to make room for a longer work term
Request to end your sequence on a work term
Do not have academic support for your requested sequence
Are requesting to reduce the number of required academic or work terms
Are requesting to exceed the number of work terms allowed in your sequence
When to submit:
Submit your form at least two weeks before the course selection date for your next scheduled academic term.
The typical processing time for a sequence change is 10 business days. Your request may also be subject to further review.
After you submit:
Once submitted, your academic advisor will review and forward your request to Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) to update on WaterlooWorks. CEE reviews requests on a case-by-case basis.
You can stay up to date on the status of your sequence change on the student dashboard in Decisions : Advisor – Your request is with your Academic Advisor for review Co-op Advisor (Math only) – Your request is with a Math Co-op Sequence Change Advisor for review CEE – Your advisor has moved your sequence change request to the Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) records team for review Student – Your advisor has sent your sequence change request back to you for further review/action Completed – Your sequence change request is approved and complete Denied – Your sequence change request has been denied Withdrawn – You have cancelled your sequence change request
Advisor – Your request is with your Academic Advisor for review
Co-op Advisor (Math only) – Your request is with a Math Co-op Sequence Change Advisor for review
CEE – Your advisor has moved your sequence change request to the Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) records team for review
Student – Your advisor has sent your sequence change request back to you for further review/action
Completed – Your sequence change request is approved and complete
Denied – Your sequence change request has been denied
Withdrawn – You have cancelled your sequence change request
Please note, when your sequence change is complete, any active job applications on the Full Cycle Service job board will be removed.
Things you should know
Course planning and academic considerations
A typical co-op sequence (beginning in year one) normally involves, and does not exceed, eight academic terms and six work terms. When admitted following year one, the number of scheduled and required work terms is adjusted accordingly.
Many departments are unable, due to limited resources, to offer courses in multiple terms. In addition, the Undergraduate Calendar may not always indicate the availability of a course in a particular term. Therefore, before you submit your request, you must investigate all the possible impacts your proposed change might have on your future access to the courses you need or want.
Sequence change requests to facilitate additional academic credentials (e.g., minors, double majors, etc.) do not normally constitute grounds for changing your sequence prescribed for your primary major (also known as Plan 10).
Approval of your request does not prevent future changes to course availability. Therefore, you must schedule your courses carefully as your new sequence unfolds. In some instances, you may need to make a subsequent change to your sequence to accommodate unforeseen changes in course scheduling.
Advisor approval and employer commitments
Consult with your Academic Advisor to obtain approval before you tell an employer you’ll make a change to your sequence. Only apply for jobs that are longer than four months (e.g., 8, 12, 16 month, etc.) with prior approval or if you have a corresponding schedule work term.
If you are already employed for a work term, we will not normally approve a sequence change request that removes the work term, regardless of how you secured the position. (i.e., an employment match or an externally arranged job).
Work term forfeits for full time studies
To convert (forfeit) a work term to start a full-time course load (where you currently have a scheduled work term) you must agree to the following conditions:
CEE will have you on record as being on a scheduled work term for the term in question, though you will no longer be eligible for co-op credit for that term. This will count as one of the work term opportunities to which you are entitled.
Your minimum co-op work term requirements will not change due to this forfeit.
By deciding to forfeit a scheduled work term to take full-time courses, you are not typically permitted to reschedule the forfeited work term.
Standard tuition fees will apply.
Fees, enrolment and administrative responsibilities
Co-op fees are assessed on full-time academic terms. The number of fees assessed varies by plan to a maximum of eight. Co-op fees are non-refundable.
Should you wish/need to cancel any course enrolments for your current or next scheduled study term due to the change in your sequence, you must do so through Quest or the Centre . It is your responsibility to investigate any impact your sequence change request might have on your enrolment in a Professional Development (PD) course. Add or remove required PD courses as necessary.
Health coverage and student loans
If approved for a work term longer than four months, you are advised to arrange any necessary extensions to your WUSA or GSA Health and Dental Plan coverage or your own private health care coverage as well as your student loan status (if applicable).
Records and documentation
CEE will retain processed forms until two years after graduation or inactivation. It is your responsibility to retain hard and/or soft copies of all your paperwork until you have completed your degree studies.
