URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/find-job/secured
TITLE: After you've secured employment

After you've secured employment
Congratulations on securing your co-op job! Take a moment to celebrate this accomplishment and the hard work that got you here.
Now that you've accepted an offer, there are a few important steps to complete before you begin your work term. There's also some planning you can do now to set yourself up for success.
Once Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) adds your employment details to WaterlooWorks , your work term details will appear on your dashboard under Co-op Sequence – Summary . You’ll find a link to your Work Term Record , which includes work term details with information about your job and employer as well as the emergency contact and location information form to complete. Refer to the Co-op rules to understand your responsibilities and expectations as a co-op student.
1. Tell CEE about your employment
If you are matched with a job through the Full-Cycle Service (FCS) job board , WaterlooWorks will automatically create your work term record.
If you receive an employment offer through the Employer-Student Direct job board , an external job option (arrange your own job) or returning to a previous employer , submit the appropriate form to CEE within seven days to confirm your employment.
If you've also submitted applications through the FCS board, you must submit your form to be removed from the FCS process by:
12 p.m. (noon) one business day before a scheduled interview, and/or
12 p.m. (noon) two business days before student rankings open.
If you miss these dates, you must continue participating in the FCS process, including attending interviews and participating in ranking and matching activities . Do not disclose information about your external offer to employers participating in the WaterlooWorks recruitment process.
2. Manage your active applications and interviews
Once you’ve accepted a job, you’re expected to honour that commitment . Politely decline any interview invitations you receive and withdraw any outstanding applications. If an employer reaches out, let them know you’ve already accepted another offer. Your Co-op Advisor can help you navigate these conversations if you’re unsure how to respond.
3. Confirm your employment details
Taking time to confirm the details of your employment before your first day can help ensure a smooth transition into your work term. Understanding the logistics of your job ahead of time allows you to focus on learning, training, building relationships and making the most out of your experience.
You can find your employer's contact information on your Work Term Record on WaterlooWorks . Reach out to your employer within seven days of accepting your job offer to finalize your work arrangements, including:
Start and end dates (discuss and receive approval for any planned days off or scheduling impacts in advance)
Whether you need to sign an employment agreement or contract
Salary and how you’ll be paid
Work location (in-person, hybrid, remote)
Expected hours and schedule
Training or onboarding requirements
Workplace expectations (e.g., dress code)
If this information differs from what you originally understood, reach out to your Co-op Advisor for guidance.
Things to consider before your work term
Find a place to live and prepare to move
If your co-op job is in a different city, start researching housing options as soon as possible. Consider factors such as rental costs, proximity to your workplace, access to public transit and whether short-term accommodations are available.
Housing resources
Co-op Connection Discord community
Plan your transportation
Think about how you'll get to and from work each day. Research public transit options, commuting times, parking availability and costs, cycling routes or carpooling opportunities.
Understand the cost of living
Your co-op salary may go further in some locations than others. Before your work term starts, estimate your monthly expenses, including rent, utilities, groceries, transportation, internet and entertainment and create a budget plan.
Taking courses during your work term
If you're planning to take a course while on your work term, make sure you're familiar with the co-op rules . If you have any questions, reach out to your Academic Advisor.
Set yourself up for success
Explore resources on workplace culture, professional success, conflict management and workplace rights to help you thrive in your new role.
Learn about success at work
