URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/find-job/external
TITLE: External job options

External job options
There are many ways to find a co-op job, and most students use a combination of approaches throughout their job search. Alongside opportunities posted on WaterlooWorks co-op job boards (Full-Cycle Service and Employer-Student Direct), you can explore employer websites, public job boards, personal networking opportunities and the Contract, Part-Time and Volunteer board . Many students successfully secure co-op credited jobs through these methods.
Using these resources is a great way to target specific locations, industries or job titles. Doing so can help you access opportunities that align with your specific goals, whether you’re interested in a specific employer, a research-centered role or working abroad .
No matter how you find your co-op job, Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) is here to help you every step of the way.
Accepted an external job offer? Submit an Arrange Own Job form
Understanding how to arrange your own job
Before you begin your job search, make sure you understand how your job needs to meet work term requirements . If you're applying to an 8, 12 or 16 month job that is not in your sequence, you'll need an approved sequence change before accepting the job. Searching for jobs can be complex as you manage different timelines for each job you apply for. You may be:
Managing several employers timelines at once
Applying and interviewing at the same time
Participating in different interview processes for each employer (e.g., screenings, technical interviews, presentations, etc.)
Work term requirements
Working abroad co-op requirements
Tips for tracking applications
Types of interviews
Search for opportunities
Whether you're looking for co-op-specific opportunities, exploring flexible credit options or building connections through networking, there are a variety of resources available to support your search.
External job boards
You can find a list of public job boards by going to the External Job Boards menu in WaterlooWorks . Here you'll find different job boards external to the University of Waterloo for co-op, full-time, summer, part-time and other jobs each with their own recruitment timelines. These jobs have not been reviewed by Co-operative Education, but may be eligible for co-op credit.
Access a collection of external job boards featuring:
Co-op opportunities
Summer jobs
Part-time positions
Full-time opportunities
Industry-specific job postings
Explore External Job Boards on WaterlooWorks
Contract, Part-Time and Volunteer job board
The WaterlooWorks Contract, Part-Time and Volunteer job board is a great resource for potential co-op jobs. You may find co-op eligible jobs on this site that meet flexible credit or unpaid/underpaid regulations.
Explore opportunities including:
Volunteer positions
Contract work
Temporary jobs
Summer positions
Seasonal work
Part-time opportunities
Casual employment
Explore the Contract, Part-Time and Volunteer board
Funded employment programs
Some employers participate in funded hiring programs that help offset the cost of hiring students. These opportunities can make it easier for organizations to bring on co-op talent and are worth exploring as part of your search.
Learn about funded employment programs
JADA
JADA helps streamline your job search. It pulls potential co-op credit-eligible job postings from a wide range of sources into one place. With JADA, you can spend less time searching through multiple job boards and more time applying to jobs that match your goals.
Key features
JADA has been designed to make your job search easier and more efficient. Some key features include:
Upload multiple résumés - Upload and manage up to five (5) résumés to your profile that are tailored to different industries, roles or skill sets.
Skills match - JADA compares your résumés and profile to job descriptions to help find jobs that align with your experience, skills and academic background.
Custom searches - Enter details about the jobs you're looking for, including location and company names.
Faculty-aligned jobs - You can view all postings in JADA, but it will highlight opportunities aligned with your faculty.
Networking
Networking is one of the most effective ways to find opportunities, especially in a competitive job market. Letting people know you’re looking and having conversations about your interests can open doors that aren’t posted publicly. CEE offers resources and events to help you develop your approach and feel more confident reaching out. You can always reach out to a Career Advisor , or watch a recorded workshop about networking .
Networking strategies Learn tactics to make genuine connections on CareerHub
Learn tactics to make genuine connections on CareerHub
Join an Employer Information Session Network with employers actively hiring
Network with employers actively hiring
View the Networking and Professional Events Calendar Discover upcoming networking opportunities
Discover upcoming networking opportunities
Get a letter of introduction
When connecting with employers, it can help to clearly explain what co-op is and how hiring a Waterloo student benefits their organization. A Waterloo-branded Letter of Introduction makes those conversations easier and more effective.
Also consider talking about funding opportunities when talking with potential employers. These funding programs can make it easier and more cost-effective for employers to hire you.
Accepted a job offer?
Once you’ve secured a position, the next step is to submit your Arrange Own Job form within seven days to request co-op credit . CEE will take care of the review and approval process.
Submit an Arrange Own Job form
After you've secured employment
Hear from other students
Interested in learning about jobs students have secured outside of WaterlooWorks? Read how fellow Waterloo students found opportunities outside WaterlooWorks, navigated their job searches and turned their own connections and initiatives into meaningful work experiences.
Shaping the future of health through technology
By: Iba Abbasi | 5 min read
Across six co-op terms spanning startups, research labs and health-care institutions, Harleen Khangura explored different corners of biomedical engineering while using technology to help solve real-world health-care challenges.
Turning rejection into motivation: how to stand out as a GBDA student
By: Lauren Ballard | 4.5 min read
Cathy Le (she/her) is a fourth-year Global Business and Digital Arts (GBDA) student. She explains her approach to standing out when it comes to co-op applications and how she deals with rejection.
Making an Rx-traordinary impact on your community in co-op
By: Lauren Ballard | 4 min read
Qamar Mobayed (she/her) is a third-year Pharmacy student who explains how she dealt with gaps in her knowledge during her co-op term, how to land a job outside of WaterlooWorks and how to create a lasting impact in your workplace.
