URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/resources/supports/mental-health
TITLE: Mental health resources

Mental health resources
Navigating the co-op process on top of schoolwork and other life demands can be challenging. Whatever you're experiencing, we're here to support you and are committed to helping you have the most positive experience possible.
All of our co-op advisors have received mental health training through Counselling Services and can provide support and direct you to other services on campus or in your region.
Co-op embedded wellness counsellors
Co-op embedded wellness counsellors are here to support your mental health throughout your co-op journey, whether you’re preparing for a work term, on the job or navigating recruitment.
They offer confidential, one-on-one support, including virtual or phone appointments. They understand the unique pressures of co-op and can help you work through challenges related to both school and work.
You can reach out for help with things like:
Managing stress
Anxiety
Relationship or family challenges
Grief and loss
Adjusting to change (e.g., starting a co-op or returning to school)
Workplace challenges
Anything you share will remain confidential and will not be shared with your co-op advisor or other staff.
Campus Wellness
Counselling Services: Individual appointments - Available at no charge to registered University of Waterloo students in classes or on co-op terms.
Group therapy - Counselling Services offers several group therapy options which can provide you with a supportive environment.
Seminars and workshops - Help enhance your personal success by equipping you with strategies, tips and skills to help you cope with life's challenges.
Helplines Good2Talk is a post-secondary helpline that offers free, confidential counselling available to all Ontario post-secondary students between ages 17-25. Here 24/7 is a helpline that helps people in Waterloo Region access addictions, mental health and crisis services provided by 12 agencies across the Waterloo Wellington region. If you are looking for urgent help, please visits Campus Wellness: Urgent help and emergency contacts .
Good2Talk is a post-secondary helpline that offers free, confidential counselling available to all Ontario post-secondary students between ages 17-25.
Here 24/7 is a helpline that helps people in Waterloo Region access addictions, mental health and crisis services provided by 12 agencies across the Waterloo Wellington region.
If you are looking for urgent help, please visits Campus Wellness: Urgent help and emergency contacts .
EmpowerMe, provided by Dialogue - a mental health and wellness service that seeks to contribute to a resilient student community. All students are able to access this service within and outside of Canada.
Campus Wellness
After hours support
International supports
DORO Your daily mental health AI app
Your daily mental health AI app
WUSA Mates One-on-one peer support
One-on-one peer support
Move your mind Student-led wellness through activity
Student-led wellness through activity
Well-being in the workplace
The #MyCoopExperience blog shares real stories from students about their co-op journeys. Through their experiences, you can learn how others navigate challenges and prioritize their well-being at work.
Blog
Composting new possibilities in Thailand
Iba Abbasi | 5.5 min read
In rural Thailand, Timea Siket is learning that meaningful research can start with community needs, hands-on problem-solving and the freedom to innovate.
Science ;
Work abroad ;
Research ;
Sustainability ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
Connecting communities through science and consulting
By: Iba Abbasi | 4 min read
Stepping into his first professional workplace, Ethan Pruchnicki expected to learn technical skills. Instead, he discovered confidence, found his voice and realized that growth often begins outside your comfort zone.
Co-op tips ;
Science ;
Overcoming challenges ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
The human side of pharmacy
By: Iba Abbasi | 4 min read
For Mera Yousef, co-op transformed classroom knowledge into meaningful patient care, showing her that communication is just as important as clinical expertise.
Pharmacy ;
Research ;
Overcoming challenges ;
Current students → Current undergraduate students ;
Future students → Future undergraduate students
