URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/resources/supports/accessibility
TITLE: Accessibility

Accessibility
Co-operative and Experiential Education works diligently to promote an accessible co-op employment process that celebrates the diversity of skills, experiences and accessibility requirements of all students.
We are more than simply committed to accessibility; we strive to be trailblazers in ensuring that every student has equal access to transformative educational and professional opportunities. We are proud to champion accessibility, advocate for equity and build a more inclusive and resilient future together.
Get support
The Co-op Student Experience team is here to support you. They advocate for accessibility and help remove barriers for students with known or suspected disabilities. They also provide ongoing learning opportunities to build awareness and support for both students and staff. This includes:
Accessibility guidance and advocacy
Disability disclosure support
Workplace accommodation support
Referrals to on and off-campus resources
co-op.accessibility@uwaterloo.ca
Co-op Accommodation Support Pathway (CASP)
The Co-op Accommodation Support Pathway (CASP) is an optional support pathway for students with known or suspected disabilities.
Through CASP, you can receive individualized support with:
Arranging accommodations
Deciding how and when to disclose a disability
Communicating with employers
Connecting to campus and community resources
Learn more about CASP
Co-op accessibility support
Accessible room booking in Tatham Centre (TC)
If you’re booking a remote interview room in TC, you can let us know about any accessibility needs. We’ll work with you to find a space that is comfortable, accessible and meets your needs.
To book a room, submit the “Request room in TC for remote interview” form under Recruiting Term Support on WaterlooWorks.
Reduced course load verification
To stay eligible for co-op, students are usually required to take a full-time course load (1.5 units). If you have an accommodation plan through AccessAbility Services that includes a reduced course load, you can request to have a verification of academic accommodations letter shared with CEE.
If you don’t yet have an accommodation plan but think a disability may be affecting your ability to take a full course load, AccessAbility Services can help you explore your options and supports.
Accessibility resources
Job search supports
Searching for co-op, EDGE, work-integrated learning or full-time opportunities? Along with exploring roles on WaterlooWorks, you can also connect with off-campus employment support services that offer opportunities across a range of industries and fields.
Many employers recruit through both WaterlooWorks and these organizations. What sets these services apart is the additional accessibility-focused support they provide, helping you navigate your job search with greater confidence and fewer barriers.
Featured resources:
Canadian Council on Rehabilitation and Work (CCRW)
Discover Ability Network
Lime Connect
March of Dimes Employment Services
Career Edge
Youth Employment Services (YES)
Accommodation planning tools
These tools can support you in understanding your workplace needs and exploring accommodation options that align with your job responsibilities.
Job Demands and Accommodation Planning Tool (JDAPT)
A tool designed to help people with episodic conditions identify accommodation ideas related to their job demands.
Job Accommodation Network (JAN)
A resource with examples of workplace accommodations and accessibility best practices.
Accommodations, disclosure and your rights
Knowing your rights and the supports available to you can help you advocate for yourself and make informed decisions at work. These resources offer guidance on workplace accessibility, accommodations and disability disclosure.
Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA): AODA is a provincial law that focuses on identifying, removing and preventing barriers for people with disabilities. It applies to government, non-profit and private sector organizations across Ontario.
Canadian Council on Rehabilitation and Work (CCRW) – Job Accommodation Service: CCRW offers practical advice and tailored accommodation solutions to help address workplace needs and support accessible employment.
Ontario Human Rights Commission (OHRC) – Duty to Accommodate: The OHRC provides clear information on accommodation, including the rights and responsibilities of both employees and employers in creating inclusive workplaces.
To learn more about disclosing a disability, review:
Lime Connect disability disclosure session
Disability disclosure resource summary sheet
If you’re a co-op, EDGE or other work-integrated learning student, you can also connect with the Co-op Student Experience team for guidance and support.
Get involved
The CEE student equity advisory group (SEAG) plays an important role in shaping CEE services and support for students. SEAG provides recommendations, advice and information related to the development and implementation of equity-driven processes. This group was formed to eliminate systemic barriers within CEE experienced by students from racialized, marginalized and excluded communities.
Related resources
