URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/work-term/consultations
TITLE: Work term consultations

Work term consultations
Consultations with your Co-op Advisor
A work term consultation is a confidential, one-on-one conversation between you and your Co-op Advisor during your work term. These conversations are a core part of your co-op experience. We've built these consultations into your work term as a way to support your learning, progress and overall experience. It’s an opportunity to reflect on your work, get guidance and make sure you’re getting the most out of your co-op.
Consultations are typically scheduled during your workday and take place virtually. If needed, you can ask your supervisor for time off work to attend. These meetings are a normal and important part of your co-op experience.
Your Co-op Advisor may reach out to invite you to a consultation, so be sure to check your WaterlooWorks messages. You can request a meeting through WaterlooWorks to discuss any work matters throughout the term.
Some topics that might come up during your consultation include:
Defining and achieving your learning objectives/goals for the work term
Discussion about the Future Talent Framework and the competencies you identified to focus on for the work term
Your upcoming performance evaluation
What you've learned, how you've grown and where you can keep improving
Your short-term and long-term career plans
Information about the co-op program and best practices
Reflect on your past or your future job search/work terms
Anything else you'd like to discuss with your co-op advisor
Remember: even if you don't have a scheduled consultation, you can always reach out to your Co-op Advisor with any questions or concerns.
Accessibility and inclusion consultations
In addition to your Co-op Advisor, CEE has staff who specialize in accessibility, equity, diversity, inclusivity, anti-racism (EDI-R) and Indigenous student support. These dedicated staff members can provide more tailored guidance, advocacy and resources to help you navigate your work term successfully.
During a consultation, you can:
Discuss challenges related to identity, equity and belonging, including experiences with workplace culture, team dynamics or feeling included and supported.
Explore workplace accessibility needs, including requesting accommodations or addressing barriers that affect your ability to succeed.
Talk through barriers in your work environment, whether physical, social or systemic, and identify strategies to navigate them.
Share experiences of exclusion, discomfort, or lack of belonging, and get guidance on possible next steps.
Learn ways to advocate for yourself while maintaining professionalism and protecting your well-being.
Book a consult with our support team
