URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/find-job/fcs
TITLE: Full-Cycle Service job board

Full-Cycle Service job board
The Full-Cycle Service (FCS) job board in WaterlooWorks connects co-op students with employers through a structured hiring process managed by Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE). From submitting applications and attending interviews to receiving hiring decisions, you'll complete the entire process on a set schedule.
The FCS process is designed to make co-op recruitment easier to navigate. Key dates for applications, interviews and match results are established in advance, so you'll know what to expect and when to take action throughout the term. All jobs posted on the FCS board are reviewed and approved by CEE staff and are eligible for standard co-op credit .
The term before your next scheduled work term is known as your “recruiting term.” At the beginning of your recruiting term, you’ll gain access to the FCS job board and apply for opportunities until you’ve secured employment, which may be into your next scheduled work term. Check the co-op important dates for the last day to start a standard or flexible work term .
Important dates
Co-op rules
WaterlooWorks
How it works
There are three recruitment cycles followed by a direct offer period each term. During each cycle:
Jobs are posted on the FCS job board
Students submit applications
Employers select candidates for interviews
Students and employers rank one another
A matching algorithm pairs students and employers based on their rankings
After the third cycle, jobs move into a direct offer period where the employer will contact you directly for interviews and offers. There is no matching algorithm during this time.
Because the Full-Cycle Service board follows a fixed schedule, you may need to balance these timelines with other job search methods, such as Employer-Student Direct (ESD) or external job opportunities .
If you accept an offer outside of the FCS board, you will need to withdraw your WaterlooWorks applications and interviews before specific deadlines.
Before you begin
The Full-Cycle Service job board is only available to you in your recruiting term before your next work term. Before accessing jobs on the Full-Cycle Service job board, you must:
Accept the WaterlooWorks terms and conditions .
Keep your job search intentions up to date throughout the term.
To ensure employers can contact you, submit your interview contact details and work search support form through WaterlooWorks → Submit a Form → Recruiting Term Support → Interview Contact Details and Work Search Support (5014).
Step 1: Search for jobs
Jobs on the Full-Cycle Service job board are always scheduled to begin the following term according to the hiring cycle important dates .
To improve your search experience, learn how to:
Use the My Program toggle
Apply pre-built filters
Search by city or geographic region
Search using keywords
Use advanced search filters
Save and manage job searches
Tip: Keep your search broad. Employers often use different job titles for similar roles, so broader keywords may help uncover more opportunities.
How to search for jobs in WaterlooWorks
Step 2: Apply for jobs
Once you've found opportunities that interest you, submit your applications directly through the FCS board. Some employers may also require you to apply directly through their system, so ensure you read the job description carefully for application details. You may apply to any jobs posted on the FCS board, up to the application limit for each cycle .
Before applying, review each posting carefully. Applying through the FCS board means you're prepared to attend any interviews you receive, participate in ranking and honour any matches.
Pay particular attention to:
Work term length
Job location
Work arrangement requirements
Transportation expectations
Citizenship or eligibility requirements
Funding-related requirements, including OSAP eligibility when applicable
If you're considering an eight-month job, discuss with your Academic Advisor to determine if your co-op program sequence and academic requirements can accommodate a longer work experience. View your program requirements in the Undergraduate Calendar or Graduate Calendar . Take time to research employers, review hiring history and work term ratings, and focus your efforts on opportunities you would genuinely be willing to accept.
Work term ratings
Work term ratings in WaterlooWorks give you a quick look at what other co-op students thought about their experience with an employer. Ratings are anonymous and cover things like employer support, opportunities to develop skills, networking, compensation and benefits, how relevant the work was to your program, and overall satisfaction.
Ratings are based on the most recent nine work terms (three years) and are only shown when there are at least five ratings , to help protect student anonymity. Use these ratings as one piece of information when deciding whether a job is right for you.
Hiring history
Hiring history in WaterlooWorks shows you an employer’s previous co-op hiring activity with Waterloo. If available, you can see how many Waterloo students the organization has hired in each of the last nine terms , along with a breakdown by faculty, work-term number and most frequently hired academic programs .
This can help you understand whether an employer has experience hiring Waterloo co-op students and whether they commonly hire students. Keep in mind that hiring history is simply a snapshot of an employer’s past hiring. It doesn’t guarantee that they’ll hire students from a specific program.
Preparing application documents
Step 3: Attend interviews
If an employer selects you for an interview, you are expected to attend. This commitment applies to all interviews, including those marked as confirmed or unconfirmed. FCS interviews are scheduled during the dates listed on important dates for each cycle.
Interviews are typically conducted through one of the following:
In person in the Tatham Centre (TC)
Online
By telephone
If you cannot attend a scheduled interview, review the interview conflict process as soon as possible. If your interview schedule becomes difficult to manage, contact your Co-op Advisor to discuss available options through the interview relief process.
Full-Cycle Service interviews
Types of interviews
Prepare for interviews
Step 4: Rank and match
After interviews are complete, students and employers complete a ranking form. Employers first indicate which students they are willing to hire and from here, students rank the available jobs by interest. Before submitting rankings, consider each opportunity carefully and think about which jobs best align with your interests, goals and circumstances.
You can submit up to ten (10) "Not Interested" rankings per term to guarantee that you will not be matched with a job and/or prioritize other jobs of interest.
Our matching system compares rankings from both students and employers and generates match results. If you're matched to a job, the co-op rules require you to accept the job and honour your commitment to that employer for the upcoming work term.
Learn how rank and match works
Need support?
Questions about your job search, interviews, rankings, matches or employment offers? Your Co-op Advisor can help you understand your options and connect you with recruitment support throughout your job search.
