URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/rules
TITLE: Co-op rules

Co-op rules
Co-operative education (co-op) integrates learning from academic courses and work experiences. It allows you to gain exposure to a wide variety of workplace experiences and develop competencies within an integrated degree program. You’ll explore careers, apply what you’re learning and build confidence as you prepare for life after graduation. The co-op program is supported by defined processes, expectations and supports that help you navigate your work terms and degree requirements with confidence.
Co-op requirements and processes may differ for graduate programs. Find more information for graduate students .
Quick links
Undergraduate Calendar
Graduate Calendar
Work term requirements
Co-op offer withdrawals
Talk to a Co-op Advisor
Your co-op degree at a glance
Your co-op degree brings together academic learning and paid work experience, with resources to help support you along the way. You’ll follow a program structure based on your faculty requirements to help you build skills, gain confidence and work towards a co-op designation on your degree.
Degree requirements
As an undergraduate student, you work toward a co-op designation on your degree by meeting your program’s requirements as outlined in the Undergraduate Calendar and participating fully in each stage of the co‑op experience. As part of co-op, you’ll complete:
A sequence of academic and work terms, outlined by your program.
A minimum of three (3) approved co-op work terms that meet standard requirements and receive COOP credit for each work term.
Additional COOP credits as outlined by your program can meet standard or flexible work term requirements.
A minimum of three (3) professional development (PD) courses , outlined by your program (excluding PD1).
A minimum of three (3)  reflective reports (as completed in PD courses, excluding PD1) and/or program-required work-term reports.
For more information on your degree requirements and the study/work sequence for your program, visit the Undergraduate Calendar.
Earning co-op credit
As a co-op student, you must meet certain eligibility requirements to receive COOP credit for a work term:
Be enrolled as a full-time student (at least 1.5 units) in the academic term prior to your work term(s).
Be on a scheduled work term.
Be legally eligible to work in the location of your work term.
Register a co-op eligible work experience that meets requirements .
Commit to an accepted job offer from an employer.
Complete your work term based on the employer agreement and receive a Student Performance Evaluation with a rating of “marginal” or better.
Failure to maintain your program’s academic standards and co-op progression requirements may require you to withdraw from the co-op program. If you require an accommodation, you can seek support through our accessibility supports and resources .
Required to withdraw from a co-op program
Each faculty sets and administers its own minimum academic standards. If you are unable to maintain the academic standards for your program, your faculty may require you to withdraw from your co-op program, which may impact your next scheduled work term.
4-month work term scheduled (all faculties):
You can continue with your job search or your work term and be eligible to receive COOP credit
You can continue with your job search or your work term and be eligible to receive COOP credit
8-month work term scheduled (all faculties, excluding Engineering):
You can continue with your job search or your work term for months 1-4 and be eligible to receive COOP credit
You can continue with your job search or your work term for months 1-4 and be eligible to receive COOP credit
Months 5-8 are not eligible for COOP credit
Months 5-8 are not eligible for COOP credit
8-month work term scheduled (Engineering students):
If employed, you are eligible for COOP credit for months 1-4 and 5-8
If employed, you are eligible for COOP credit for months 1-4 and 5-8
If unemployed, you are eligible to continue your job search for months 1-4, the scheduled work term for months 5-8 will be removed from your sequence as you are no longer eligible to receive COOP credit for that term
If unemployed, you are eligible to continue your job search for months 1-4, the scheduled work term for months 5-8 will be removed from your sequence as you are no longer eligible to receive COOP credit for that term
Re-entry into a co-op program is a faculty decision. Academic standards for each faculty are listed in the Undergraduate Calendar.
Work term requirements
Work terms are employment opportunities completed between academic terms according to your work/study sequence. To qualify, your co-op job must:
Be paid, supervised work completed during a scheduled work term.
Support skill development and learning.
Meet standard or flexible work term requirements .
Meet location eligibility and pay guidelines.
If you’re unsure whether a role meets these expectations, your Co-op Advisor can help you assess it before you accept the job.
University policies, petitions and grievances
The University expects you to follow its policies during all stages of your degree. These include:
Policy 71 – Student discipline
Policy 42 – Gender-based and sexual violence alleged against students
Policy 33 – Ethical behaviour
These policies help ensure fairness, integrity and a positive experience for all members of the Waterloo community. If a situation occurs that negatively impacts your success in co-op, you may submit a petition or grievance under Policy 70.
Finding and accepting a job
Finding a job
You can find a co-op job through a variety of ways, including:
WaterlooWorks job boards with opportunities that are pre-approved for co-op credit.
Securing a job through employer websites, public job boards, networking and connections.
Wherever you apply, you are expected to attend all interviews you are invited to.
How to find your co-op job
Accepting a job
Accepting a co-op job is an exciting step in your co-op journey. Once you accept an offer, you are committed to that role and are considered employed for that term. At this point, stop applying and interviewing for other jobs. Your work term record in WaterlooWorks becomes the official record of your employment.
If you choose to break a commitment to an accepted job offer, the University considers it a renege and it will affect your work term record, transcript and student status. We also expect employers to honour their offers, and if an employer withdraws an offer or significantly changes it, this is considered a rescind.
If your situation changes or you’re unsure about next steps, reach out to your Co-op Advisor as soon as possible to help you understand your options.
Learn more about co-op offer withdrawals
Your employment agreement
Your employment agreement, or contract, outlines the terms of your co-op job and helps set clear expectations for both you and your employer.
Here’s what to know:
Your employment agreement is between you and your employer. The University of Waterloo and Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) are not part of this agreement.
You maintain full-time student status while you’re employed on a scheduled work term.
You are expected to follow the terms of your agreement and your employer’s workplace policies, including working the full length of your work term until the end day listed in the agreement.
CEE is here to support both students and employers and can help if unexpected circumstances come up during your work term.
Leaving a work term early
In general, not completing your employment agreement will result in a Failed Work Term Status . If you need to leave a work term early or your employment ends unexpectedly, contact your Co-op Advisor right away . They can help you understand your next steps and options. Examples of leaving a work term early may include:
Termination – Your employer ends your employment
Resignation – You choose to leave your co-op job
In rare cases, employers may need to lay off employees, including co-op students. Should your work term end early due to a layoff, you may still qualify for co-op credit . Please contact your Co-op Advisor for support. If you have an extenuating circumstance (e.g., health, compassionate grounds) and feel an exception is warranted in your case, you can submit a petition under Policy 70 for consideration.
Courses on your work term
Your work term is your chance to focus on learning in the workplace and develop future-ready skills. While we allow you to take courses during your work term, there are limits in place to help you successfully balance both.
Undergraduate students
You may take up to one course (0.5 units) in addition to required professional development courses. In some cases, you may be allowed to take one additional course (0.5 units) with written approval from your academic advisor and, if employed, your employer. Registration for a second course will open approximately one week before the start of the term. Please note that course registration is prioritized for students scheduled on academic terms.
In some cases, you may be allowed to take one additional course (0.5 units) with written approval from your academic advisor and, if employed, your employer.
Registration for a second course will open approximately one week before the start of the term. Please note that course registration is prioritized for students scheduled on academic terms.
Graduate students
With permission from your department, you may take up to one course (0.5 units) while on a scheduled work term.
The University prioritizes course registration for students on scheduled academic terms, so availability may be limited. If you have any questions about academics on your work term, reach out to your academic advisor.
