URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/about-co-op/employment-statistics
TITLE: Employment statistics

Employment statistics
To support you through the co-op recruitment process, we share regular updates on co-op employment outcomes. These statistics help you understand overall hiring trends across terms, faculties and programs.
As of May 1, 2026, you can find co-op employment statistics through the Co-op Data Hub. You’ll find clear, accessible summaries every two weeks.
Due to Microsoft licensing updates, we needed to change how we share employment data with students. We remain committed to providing you with transparent and timely information to help you understand employment trends throughout your co-op journey.
How to use the Co-op Data Hub
Within the Co-op Data Hub, you'll find employment reports for both the current recruiting term and current work term. Each report includes:
Summary tab – Employment rates and the number of employed students at two-week intervals.
Overall by program tab – Employment rates by program across all work term levels, with comparisons to the same date of the previous year and the final employment rate for the previous year.
First work term by program tab – Employment rates of students in their first work term, with comparisons to the same date of the previous year and the final employment rate for the previous year.
You can filter the reports by faculty or program and include year-over-year comparisons. You can only view the reports; you cannot download them.
Please note that recruiting often continues into the work term - some students secure employment up to the final date required to receive co‑op credit (typically about four weeks after the work term begins).
Visit co-op important dates for key milestones.
Understanding the co-op employment rate
The co‑op employment rate shows the proportion of co‑op students who have secured approved employment at different points in the recruitment cycle.
We share this information to help you understand overall job search trends and how employment outcomes typically change over time. Our employment rate calculations follow industry and government standards.
How we calculate the employment rate
We calculate the employment rate by dividing the number of employed students by the total number of students participating in co-op recruitment.
Employed students include those:
Secured employment through the Full-Cycle Service or Employer-Student Direct job boards
Arranged their own job
Returning to a previous employer
Note: Students who make sequence or program plan changes, as well as those who participate in Waterloo Experience (WE) Accelerate are not included in the employment rate.
Students participating in recruitment include:
Employed
Searching for co-op employment
Waiting for an external job offer or have an Arrange Own Job Form under review
No longer engaged in the employment process
Note: Students who have made sequence changes or withdrawn from co-op are removed from the scheduled-out numbers.
Co-op job search support
Some students may find it challenging to secure employment due to factors such as job availability, work preferences, economic conditions, experience level or job search strategies.
If you’re still searching, we’re here to support you. You can continue your job search into the start of your work term, explore arranging your own job for co‑op credit, consider an off-term or talk through options with your academic and co‑op advisors.
If you have questions about employment rates or need support with your work search, connect with your co‑op advisor.
