URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/rules/job-withdrawals
TITLE: Co-op job offer withdrawals

Co-op job offer withdrawals
Accepting a co‑op job is a significant step in your co-op journey and represents a commitment between you and an employer. While most co‑op work terms move forward as expected, there are rare situations where plans change before a work term begins. When this happens, the situation generally falls into one of two categories:
Renege – you break a commitment to an accepted job offer
Rescind – an employer breaks a commitment to an accepted job offer
These scenarios are uncommon, but when they occur, there are academic and administrative implications. If they occur, our team is available to provide guidance and support. If you have extenuating circumstances, you can request an exception by submitting a Policy 70 petition .
Withdrawing your co-op offer
A renege occurs when you break a commitment to an accepted co-op job offer before the first day of work.
You can only accept one job per term. Once you accept an offer, you're considered employed for that work term and must stop applying for other positions. Reneges can affect not only your own co‑op progression, but also employer trust and future opportunities for fellow Waterloo students.
What happens when you renege?
Reneging on a co‑op job affects more than just the individual work term. There are consequences to reneging that impact your work term record and academic transcript.
If you renege, you:
Are not eligible to earn co‑op credit for that work term.
Lose full‑time equivalent student status for that term. This can impact things like immigration status, funding (e.g., OSAP) and eligibility for certain work visas (e.g., J1 visas).
This can impact things like immigration status, funding (e.g., OSAP) and eligibility for certain work visas (e.g., J1 visas).
May not recruit for co-op jobs for that work term.
Some programs may have additional consequences, as determined by the faculty.
Impacts to your WaterlooWorks status and transcript
Your WaterlooWorks status and transcript will also depend on whether this is your first or a subsequent renege.
First renege: Your work term status for that work term in WaterlooWorks becomes UL (Unemployed: Lost/forfeited co‑op credit opportunity) . No co‑op course appears on your academic transcript.
Your work term status for that work term in WaterlooWorks becomes UL (Unemployed: Lost/forfeited co‑op credit opportunity) .
No co‑op course appears on your academic transcript.
Subsequent renege: Your work term status for that work term in WaterlooWorks becomes UU (Unemployed: University‑imposed) . A co‑op course appears on your transcript with a grade of NCR (No Credit Received).
Your work term status for that work term in WaterlooWorks becomes UU (Unemployed: University‑imposed) .
A co‑op course appears on your transcript with a grade of NCR (No Credit Received).
Both UL and UU statuses may affect your ability to work internationally during or immediately after that term. For guidance, contact an international employment specialist if you plan to work internationally or an immigration consultant if you're an international student.
Note: Any reneges before fall 2023 do not count towards your total.
Important things to know if you renege
The term remains a scheduled work term and you may only register in a part-time academic load. International students should seek advice from an immigration consultant on what to do with employment and course registration.
International students should seek advice from an immigration consultant on what to do with employment and course registration.
Work terms where you have a UL or UU work term status in WaterlooWorks cannot be changed or moved through a sequence change.
If you find a new job on the same term, you must tell the employer the term is not eligible for co‑op credit as this may affect employer funding.
If you have extenuating circumstances, you can request an exception by submitting a Policy 70 petition.
We strongly encourage you to speak with your Co‑op Advisor before making any decisions that could result in a renege.
Employer withdrawing co-op offer
A rescind occurs when an employer withdraws or significantly changes a co‑op job offer before the work term begins. CEE actively works with the employer to identify reasons for the rescind and whether there are other options within the organization. Employers make their own hiring decisions, and while rescinds aren't common, they can happen for reasons outside a student’s control, such as:
Economic or market changes
Funding or budget cuts
Organizational or staffing changes
A rescind may also occur if the employer significantly changes fundamental parts of the job offer like pay, job location, start/end dates or core job duties. If these key details change before the work term starts, the original offer may no longer be considered valid. Your Co-op Advisor will work with you to support you in finding another work term opportunity. If you have any questions about discrepancies with your job offer, reach out to your co-op advisor.
Rescinded offers for student behaviour
In rare cases, an employer may withdraw an offer because of student behaviour, such as:
Unprofessional communication
Inappropriate or aggressive negotiation after acceptance
Failure to meet clearly stated conditions of employment
CEE reviews the withdrawal in these situations and treats it as a renege when applicable, and renege consequences may apply.
What to do if offer is rescinded
If an employer withdraws or significantly changes your co‑op offer, contact your co-op advisor immediately. We will connect with both you and the employer to understand what happened. Our goal is to support you and help determine whether an employment option is still possible for the term.
Related information
