URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/find-job/external/aoj
TITLE: Submitting an Arrange Own Job form

Submitting an Arrange Own Job form
If you’ve found a co-op job outside of the Full-Cycle Service or Employer-Student Direct job boards on WaterlooWorks, you’ll need to submit an Arrange Your Own Job (AOJ) form so we can review it for co-op credit and create a work term record . We review each submission individually to make sure it meets our standard or flexible work term requirements .
If you are returning to a previous employer, follow the steps outlined on our Returning to Previous Employer page.
How to submit your AOJ form
After accepting your job offer, you need to submit an AOJ form within seven days . Before you begin, have a copy of your job description and employment offer available, as you’ll need information from those documents to complete the form. You should also let your employer, hiring manager or supervisor know that someone from Co-operative and Experiential Education will contact them to verify job details.
To submit your AOJ:
Go to WaterlooWorks > Submit a Form > Work Term Employment Offer
Select the form that matches where you will physically be working from (not where the company is based)
Fill out the form with as much detail as possible, including job title, start and end dates, job responsibilities, pay and supervisor contact information
Upload proof that you accepted the job offer (offer letter or confirmation email)
Once we receive your form, our next step is to contact your employer and verify it’s a quality experience and will provide opportunities for skill development. This typically takes about seven business days to review unless we need additional information or are waiting to hear from your employer. The submission of an AOJ form does not guarantee credit for employment. Submitting this form will also lead to the removal of any active applications you still have within the Full-Cycle Service job board.
If you have any questions, please reach out to your Co-op Advisor .
How to submit forms on WaterlooWorks
Co-op work term requirements
Work abroad co-op requirements
Special circumstances
Employer has you sign “Student Employment Acknowledgment Form”: This is a document that confirms your employment details. If requested, you can complete it and your employer will submit the job details on your behalf.
Unpaid or underpaid jobs in Canada or the U.S.: You’ll need to explain any additional compensation (like stipends, housing or other benefits) so we can assess if it meets co-op requirements.
Working for multiple employers during your work term: If you're working for multiple employers as part of a flexible co-op credit , you'll need to submit a separate AOJ form for each job. We will only review your submission once all forms are received.
Understanding your AOJ form status
You can track the status of your AOJ form on WaterlooWorks while you wait for a response.
Your Arranged Own Job has been approved for co-op credit.
Your job will now be registered on WaterlooWorks and your status will be changed to “EJ" (Employed: Jointly Arranged) or "ES" (Employed: Student Arranged).
