URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/work-term/overview
TITLE: Work term overview

Work term overview
Every work term looks a little bit different, but planning ahead can help you stay on track and make the most of your experience. Have a question or concern during your work term? Send a message to your Co-op Advisor . They have the knowledge and expertise to support you during your co-op work terms and throughout your co-op career at Waterloo.
Month one
Update your work term record within WaterlooWorks to ensure we have the most current information on file. Sometimes job details change, but it's important that we know how to reach you in case you need support throughout the term.
In your first week, read about safety, compensation and insurance to be fully informed on how to be safe at work, how you should be compensated and what insurance coverage you may need.
Complete workplace orientation/training.
Discuss expectations, goals and learning objectives with your supervisor. Use the student performance evaluation as a guide for your discussion.
Review the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at work activity .
Check out our supports and resources page to see what resources you can access on a work term.
Month two
Complete your eCheckin form within WaterlooWorks when prompted via message from CEE.
Schedule a mid-term evaluation with your supervisor to review and revise your learning objectives before your final evaluation. Use the student performance evaluation as a guide for your discussion.
If your co-op advisor messages you, participate in a work term consultation to reflect on your experience and plan next steps.
Month three
Start thinking about your next co-op work term. If you’d like to continue your work with the same employer, discuss this possibility with your supervisor. Note : If you've agreed to an eight-month work term with your current employer, you must fulfill this commitment.
Note : If you've agreed to an eight-month work term with your current employer, you must fulfill this commitment.
Reflect on your skill development and progress . PD courses include a guided reflection or set up a time to discuss with your Co-op Advisor or engage in conversations with peer, mentor, or work term supervisor.
Month four
Talk to your supervisor about scheduling an end-of-term review so that they can complete and submit your performance evaluation form before the end of your work term. It is a mandatory milestone for all co-op students.
Talk to your supervisor about scheduling an end-of-term review so that they can complete and submit your performance evaluation form before the end of your work term. It is a mandatory milestone for all co-op students.
Complete your work term recap form within WaterlooWorks to reflect on your work term.
Finish the SDGs at work activity and survey.
Revise your résumé to prepare for your next recruiting term. Consider showing the updated version to your employer for feedback.
After your work term ends
Reflect on your experience to identify skills, interests and next steps. This can help you to refine your career path and determine next steps.
Tip: Book a Career Exploration & Planning appointment with the Centre for Career Development to discuss your overall career plans with a Career Advisor, who can help you understand your skills, strengths, interests, values, personality and more.
