URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/resources/supports
TITLE: Co-op supports

Co-op supports
Co-operative and Experiential Education (CEE) supports you every step of the way throughout your co-op journey. We offer a range of supports and resources to help you navigate challenges, build confidence and feel connected so you can focus on making the most of your experience.
Mental health Learn about the mental health supports available, including counselling, campus resources and 24/7 help options.
Learn about the mental health supports available, including counselling, campus resources and 24/7 help options.
Accessibility Explore the accessibility supports available to help reduce barriers including accommodations, advising and job search resources
Explore the accessibility supports available to help reduce barriers including accommodations, advising and job search resources
Housing Find guidance, tips and resources to help you navigate housing, from early planning to choosing options that fit your needs.
Find guidance, tips and resources to help you navigate housing, from early planning to choosing options that fit your needs.
Financial resources Access financial supports and guidance to help you plan ahead, manage expenses and navigate funding options.
Access financial supports and guidance to help you plan ahead, manage expenses and navigate funding options.
Career supports Build confidence and prepare for your next steps with career resources and support from the Centre for Career Development
Build confidence and prepare for your next steps with career resources and support from the Centre for Career Development
Co-op community
Stay connected and make the most of your co-op experience by sharing stories and engaging with other students wherever your work term takes you. From online communities to real student experience stories, there are plenty of ways to feel supported and part of the co-op community.
Explore the co-op community
Harassment and discrimination
Learn about your rights, how to recognize harassment and discrimination, and the supports available to help you navigate and address concerns during your co-op experience.
Harassment and discrimination resources
Safety and your rights at work
Addressing employer relationships
Request for academic/work term sequence change
Need to change your co-op sequence? Review the requirements and submit a request on Decisions to adjust your academic and work term schedule.
Health, dental, travel coverage and legal protection
Did you know that both undergraduate and graduate students have access to health coverage, dental coverage, vision coverage, travel coverage, legal protection services and mental health resources through the Waterloo Undergraduate Student Association (WUSA) or Graduate Student Association (GSA)? Find the full list of services and resources available to you!
