URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/co-operative-education/work-term/pd-reports
TITLE: Professional development courses, work term reflections and reports

Professional development courses, work term reflections and reports
Professional development courses
Whether you're preparing for your first co-op work term, participating in another work-integrated learning (WIL) experience, or reflecting on what you've learned along the way, the Centre for Work-Integrated Learning (CfWIL) offers courses and learning opportunities to help you make the most of your experiences.
Guided by the Future-Ready Talent Framework , these courses help you connect what you’re learning to your academic, personal and career goals. Through applied learning and guided reflection, you'll identify the skills you’re developing and how to apply those to future opportunities.
Course requirements
Course requirements vary by faculty, academic program and student level.
Undergraduate students
View the Undergraduate Studies Academic Calendar for your specific requirements.
Discover more about Undergraduate PD course descriptions and offerings .
Graduate students
View the Graduate Studies Academic Calendar for your specific requirements.
Learn more about Graduate WIL Courses .
If you have any questions about PD requirements or enrolment, please reach out to the Centre for Work-Integrated Learning or your Academic Advisor .
Work term reflections and reports
Reflection is an important part of your WIL experience. It provides an opportunity to examine your experiences, make connections between learning and practice, and consider how your experiences contribute to your future goals. Depending on your academic program and student level, your reflection and work report requirements may be completed through:
Professional Development (PD) courses: Undergraduate students may complete their reflective report requirements through the Major Reflective Reports (MRRs) which are embedded within PD courses.
Graduate Reflective Report (GRR): Graduate students in some CEE-supported co-op programs complete the GRR for their reflection milestone.
Program-specific work reports: Some undergraduate and graduate programs require work reports that are administered and assessed by their academic program.
All co-op students complete MRRs as part of Professional Development (PD) course requirements. For students in Arts, Environment, Health, Math and Science, the MRR fulfills the reflection requirement of your co-op degree designation. This also applies to most Engineering programs, although several Engineering programs require work term reports to meet program requirements. You must submit your work term reports to your faculty or program for grading.
To understand your specific reflection and work report requirements, consult the Undergraduate Calendar / Graduate Calendar or contact your Academic Advisor .
