URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/housing/residences
TITLE: Our residences

Our residences
Campus Housing has a lot to offer.
Whether you're looking for quiet study spaces and a room to call your own, or to maximize shared space and social opportunities, you'll have the chance to live independently while building meaningful connections that could last a lifetime. Campus Housing isn’t just about finding a place to live – it’s about finding a place where you belong.
Residence wide benefits | Traditional-style residence | Suite-style residence | Frequently asked questions
Shared benefits, amenities and perks of living with Campus Housing (regardless of the building you live in!):
Regardless of what building you live in, you'll still have access to so many amenities as a Campus Housing resident.
Front desk and IT support (see contact & hours page for front desk hours)
High-speed wireless internet and all utilities included
Don support
Laundry facilities
Basketball courts (V1, REV, and CLV)
Music rooms (V1, REV, and CMH)
Multi-faith prayer rooms (V1 and CMH)
Study spots
Fitness centres (REV and CMH)
Community centre with access to ping pong and pool tables, and more
Fully-furnished rooms
And so much more!
What are traditional-style and suite-style residences?
Campus Housing offers two styles of residences: traditional-style and suite-style. Most first-year students live in traditional-style residences while some first-year and most upper-year and graduate students live in suite-style residences.
Not sure which style is ideal for your on-campus residence experience?  Learn more about each style or take our “what’s your residence style” quiz.
Traditional-style residence
Traditional-style residences are the classic dorm experience where you have a bed, desk, and closet in a single bedroom or shared with another student (double room). There are shared washrooms on the floor (usually single-gender), and meals are typically eaten in the on-site cafeteria.
Suite-style residence
Suite-style residences are apartments or townhouses with a single or double shared bedroom, and you share a kitchen, living area, and bathroom with 2-3 other students that you and your roommates are responsible for cleaning.
Residence frequently asked questions
Housing-related terminology
Housing-related terminology
Gender Identity:
Gender Identity refers to a person’s internal sense of themselves as male, female, both, in-between, neither, or some other understanding of gender. People who question their gender identity may feel insure about their gender or believe they do not belong to the sex they were assigned at birth.
All-gender:
All-gender usually refers to washrooms, showers and changing facilities where students of all genders are welcome, including non-binary, gender diverse, female and male students.
Mixed-gender:
Mixed-gender refers to living and social spaces where all gender identities and expressions are welcome. This may include cisgender and non-cisgender identities, female and male students, gender-diverse and non-binary students.
Gender specific:
Gender specific (sometimes single-gender) refers to the spaces that accommodate only one specific gender, usually women or men.
Shared Private:
Shared Private refers to shared private spaces such as a one private lockable bedroom shared by 2 individuals. E.g. REV double, Village 1 double and Beck Hall double room. Please view room details and floor plans for REV, Village 1 and UWP for more information.
Semi-private:
Semi-private refers to semiprivate spaces such as a one private lockable bedroom with partial or full partitions shared by 2 individuals. E.g. Village 1 Interconnecting room and CMH double. Please view room details and floor plans for Village 1 and CMH for more information.
Are there all-gender washrooms in residence?
We have a place for you. We want two-spirit, trans, non-binary and gender non-conforming students to feel welcome and safe living in our residences. All-gender washrooms are spaces that individuals can access and use, regardless of their gender identity. Unlike gender-specific washrooms which are designated as being for either women or men, all-gender washrooms are available for use by anyone.
Each first-year residence building has at least one all-gender washroom in our central complex area to use when studying and hanging out with friends, dining at an eatery or visiting a front desk.  If you are living in Claudette Millar Hall, each floor has all-gender washrooms . Our other first-year residence communities (dorm-style and suite-style) are organized by gender, where students who identify as female live together, and students who identify as male live together.  Washrooms in Ron Edyt Village and Village 1 are designated as being for either women or men. In suite-style residences (UWP, CLV and MKV), room assignments are based on gender and the washrooms are shared by the roommates within the suite. If you wish to not disclose your gender, we will never ask you to.
If you would like to speak with someone before completing the First-Year Guarantee Residence Application , please email us at housing@uwaterloo.ca and we will connect you with our Residence Life team who are ready to support you and will find you the space in residence that works best for you.
