URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/orientation/international-students
TITLE: International Orientation

International Orientation
Are you an incoming undergraduate international student starting in September 2026?
Join us for International Orientation: September 3-4, 2026
Event schedule
Browse a high-level schedule of events or just check your Portal calendar after you register to see your personalized schedule.
First Year Orientation: September 6-12
You're also invited to First Year Orientation . Register now to attend 20+ events where you'll get introduced to the unique traditions at Waterloo.
I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of IO, but without a doubt, the bonfire stood out as the pinnacle!  Engaging in captivating conversations and forming connections with students from diverse cultural backgrounds was an absolute blast!
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Do I need to register/ sign up for International Orientation?
Yes, you will need to register for International Orientation. Keep an eye on your @uwaterloo.ca student email in August for more information on how to register.
Do I have to go to International Orientation and First Year Orientation?
We strongly encourage you to attend both International Orientation and First Year Orientation .
International Orientation will get you set up for life in Canada with activities and sessions planned specifically for your needs. First Year Orientation will help you get connected with your faculty and the greater Waterloo campus. Both orientations have some once-in-a-lifetime events that you don't want to miss!
Do I have to pay for International Orientation?
No, there is no additional fee associated with International Orientation.
How do I know if I am eligible for International Orientation?
If you identify as an international student beginning your undergraduate studies at the University of Waterloo, then you're eligible for International Orientation. This includes students who:
Are Canadian citizens but spent most of their life outside of Canada
Completed high school in Canada but hold citizenship from another country
Completed high school outside of Canada
Are completing a BASE or iBASE program
Students who are studying at UWaterloo on an international exchange/study abroad term and have completed one or more years at an institution in another country are not eligible for International Orientation and should register for Exchange Orientation .
International students in graduate programs (Master's, PhD or other) should register for Graduate Orientation .
If I register for International Orientation, do I have to attend every event?
You don't have to attend every event, but we strongly encourage that you attend as many as you can. International Orientation is carefully planned with the needs of international students in mind to make sure that you have a seamless transition and set yourself up for success at Waterloo.
I won't be able to attend International Orientation due to Visa/Study Permit delays. Is there a way that I can still get this information?
We host a Late Arrival Welcome in late September for students who are unable to attend International Orientation. Keep an eye on your @uwaterloo.ca student email for details once you arrive or reach out to ise@uwaterloo.ca for details in September.
When should I arrive in Canada for International Orientation?
We recommend that you arrive before International Orientation begins. If that is not possible, you will be able to join in on the fun and attend F irst Year Orientation .
Before you plan your flight, make sure that you can move into your accommodation when you arrive. Most leases begin on September 1, so you may need to book a short-term accommodation if you arrive earlier. If you are living on-campus, you will receive an email asking you to schedule your move-in appointment in August.
International Orientation is a partnership between the International Experience Centre (IEC) , Student Success Office (SSO) and the University's six faculties.
