URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/registrar/enrolment-services-and-academic-policy
TITLE: Enrolment services and academic policy

Enrolment services and academic policy
The enrolment services and academic policy portfolio is responsible for:
leadership for the strategic enrolment management of all currently enrolled undergraduate students;
accountability for the systems, processes, and office activities that guard the integrity and confidentiality of student records;
ensuring academic policy and requirements are accurately and consistently applied;
overseeing the scheduling of classes and final examinations, student-initiated services related to their academic records, and classroom renewal projects;
maintaining a productive working relationship with deans, associate deans, and university college principals/presidents as well as their departments and administrative staff; and
University representative to other Ontario universities and the Ministry of Colleges Universities, Research Excellence and Security.
Oversees the following areas:
Calendar and Curriculum: The calendar and curriculum team is responsible for: producing the annual Undergraduate Studies Academic Calendar and maintaining archived academic calendars; training users of the curriculum management system, writing user instruction manuals, maintaining and testing new version upgrades to the curriculum management software; co-ordinating registrarial mass email communications to instructors; maintaining the following websites: Academic Calendar and Curriculum Management Resources; Office of the Registrar; Registrar Resources; Undergraduate Important Dates; and overseeing hood distribution to graduates at Convocation.
producing the annual Undergraduate Studies Academic Calendar and maintaining archived academic calendars;
training users of the curriculum management system, writing user instruction manuals, maintaining and testing new version upgrades to the curriculum management software;
co-ordinating registrarial mass email communications to instructors;
maintaining the following websites: Academic Calendar and Curriculum Management Resources; Office of the Registrar; Registrar Resources; Undergraduate Important Dates; and
overseeing hood distribution to graduates at Convocation.
Final Examinations: The examination services team is responsible for: scheduling and administering final examinations for in-person and online courses; final examination support/training for the academic units; and maintaining, managing, and optimizing of 130+ classrooms (includes repairs, renovations, furnishings, and new builds).
scheduling and administering final examinations for in-person and online courses;
final examination support/training for the academic units; and
maintaining, managing, and optimizing of 130+ classrooms (includes repairs, renovations, furnishings, and new builds).
Records: The records team interacts directly with current students, alumni, staff, and faculty to provide services and support that lead to a positive student experience. The team is responsible for: recording and maintaining official student academic records; facilitating the student petitions process with campus partners; operationalizing enrolment-related special projects; and preparing and managing diploma distribution for convocation.
recording and maintaining official student academic records;
facilitating the student petitions process with campus partners;
operationalizing enrolment-related special projects; and
preparing and managing diploma distribution for convocation.
Scheduling: The scheduling team is responsible for: generating the graduate and undergraduate class schedules; scheduling support/training for the academic units; booking academic rooms.
generating the graduate and undergraduate class schedules;
scheduling support/training for the academic units;
booking academic rooms.
The team is led by the Associate Registrar, Enrolment Services and Academic Policy, Jennifer Coghlin.
Need to contact someone on the team?
Reach out to the Calendar and Communications team at rocomms@uwaterloo.ca .
Reach out to the Examinations team at exams@uwaterloo.ca .
Reach out to the Records team at rorecops@uwaterloo.ca .
Reach out to the Scheduling team at regstep@uwaterloo.ca .
Reminder: Employees can access the full list of Office of Registrar staff (and contact information) on the Registrar Resources website.
